---
id: 3015c3f37d61b6e1
url: https://www.frontiersin.org
title: Frontiers | Publisher of peer-reviewed articles in open access journals
country: Sierra Leone
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-06-26'
feed_name: Google News — Sierra Leone agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Authors Authors Editors and reviewers Collaborators Authors No matches to your query could be found. Try another search term. Authors Editors and reviewers Collaborators Find a journal We have a home for your research. Our community journals and sections cover more than 1,700 academic disciplines. Find a topic Research Topics bring together expert researchers to work on emerging themes. Find your community or start a new one. Resources for authors Your publishing journey starts here. Visit our author hub to explore guidance and tools to help you prepare, submit, and share your research. Submit your research Ready to publish? Start your submission today and get more impact for your research by publishing with us. Peer review Our efficient peer review means you’ll get a decision on your manuscript fast - our average acceptance time is 96 days. Why open science is essential for our future Science shapes every part of our lives, from the medicines we rely on to the food we eat and the health of our planet. But for too long, much of that knowledge has been locked behind barriers. Hosted on CNBC, Science Unlocked tells the story of why open science matters, how it accelerated life-saving breakthroughs during COVID-19, and why making research openly accessible is essential to solve today’s biggest global challenges, from climate change to human health. It also shows how open science accelerates innovation, shapes new industries, and helps turn research into economic and societal progress at scale. News SCIENCE NEWS Published on 17 Mar 2026 Frontiers in Science: Trace levels of food pathogen do not always translate to health risk, says study Ultra-sensitive food safety tests may drive food waste and unavailability with limited public health benefit, according to a Frontiers in Science study. SCIENCE NEWS Published on 20 Feb 2026 Scientists reveal our best- and worst-case scenarios for a warming Antarctica Antarctica’s pale expanses of ice keep water locked up and reflect heat from the planet — but the climate crisis is putting these safeguards at increasing risk. FRONTIERS NEWS Published on 05 Mar 2026 How do you know you can trust the science you read? what happens between an author clicking ‘submit’ and a study being published? Discover the journey every manuscript takes before publication at Frontiers SCIENCE NEWS Published on 09 Feb 2026 Brief, intensive exercise helps patients with panic disorder more than standard care Scientists have shown in a randomized controlled trial that brief intermittent intensive exercise is more effective at reducing the severity of panic disorder than relaxation therapy. SCIENCE NEWS Published on 03 Feb 2026 Are cats ‘vegan’ meat eaters? Study finds why isotopic fingerprint of cat fur could trick us into thinking that way A recent study published in Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution has found that the nitrogen isotope signatures of cat fur resemble those of plant-eaters more than those of meat-eaters. SCIENCE NEWS Published on 17 Feb 2026 Bacteria frozen in ancient underground ice cave found to be resistant against 10 modern antibiotics Bacteria lurk everywhere. However, it’s only after researchers retrieve them from the most remote corners of the Earth that we can learn more about the risks and potentials they pose. FRONTIERS NEWS Published on 14 Jan 2026 Science unlocked: a new documentary spotlights how Frontiers is opening knowledge to accelerate global progress A new documentary hosted by CNBC shines a spotlight on Frontiers’ mission to make science open — and the powerful role this approach plays in accelerating breakthroughs across health, climate resilience, technology, the economy, and society. See more news Get the latest research updates, subscribe to our newsletter Name Last name E-mail Subscribe
