---
id: f86b407f616fb59d
url: https://www.context.news
title: Climate, Economic Inequality &amp; Tech News | Context by TRF
country: Sierra Leone
domain: Food Systems & Value Chain
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-03-18'
feed_name: Google News — Sierra Leone agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

13:02 AI AI needs a lot of power and water. Can Mexico afford it? Locals in Queretaro say they’ve been left in the dark as their home becomes ‘data centre valley' Long Read AI Resistance blooms in Mexico's data centre valley Socioeconomic Inclusion ‘I felt dirty': Gay Panamanians fight blood donation ban Climate Risks What one year of Trump’s climate censorship reveals Hot Topics: Socioeconomic Inclusion Money, Power & People Big Tech Nature Climate Risks Featured Data centres and power: who pays for AI's water? It's no secret that AI needs a lot of water and energy. But how much exactly is difficult to verify. We went on the ground to find out. Just Transition Is the EU-Mercosur trade deal bad for the planet? As Trump's tariffs bite, Brussels pursues new trade, but critics say an accord with South American countries will cost the climate Nature The Amazon rainforest and five reasons for hope Slowing deforestation in Brazil and pledges to ban oil drilling in Colombia offer slivers of hope for the Amazon Nature Brazil's seed collectors combat Amazon deforestation Restoration of forestland and other areas is taking root, but lags far behind the rapid rate of deforestation in the Amazon See all Climate articles Opinion Money, Power & People Europe's security depends on LGBTI+ rights - here's why With real expertise to offer, LGBTI+ organisations should be treated as strategic partners in security and defence Socioeconomic Inclusion Meet Spain's first ambassador for global LGBTQ+ rights Spain's LGBTQ+ envoy Jorge Noval Álvarez says the world needs new leaders championing gay and transgender rights Money, Power & People One year of Trump: How the president undermined global LGBTQ+ rights Donald Trump rolled back LGBTQ+ rights at home and abroad in an unprecedented first year in office See all Inclusive Economies articles Opinion AI The Great Workplace Transition fails without new economic systems If socioeconomic systems don't evolve as AI replaces jobs, people will struggle with practical survival and psychological needs Digital Rights From Iran to Uganda, internet shutdowns batter economies The economic toll of digital blackouts hit $20 billion last year. Citizens are adapting with new tech to skirt government controls AI U.S. cities look to new AI tools to boost recycling Dirty, labor-intensive and inefficient - but now US recycling rates may rise thanks to AI See all Tech & Society articles Most Read 1 How flood control projects fail the poor in the Philippines 2 Britain's foreign aid: Where does the money go? 3 Resistance blooms in Mexico's data centre valley 4 What does a Donald Trump presidency mean for LGBTQ+ rights? 5 Europe's security depends on LGBTI+ rights - here's why 6 ‘I felt dirty': Gay Panamanians fight blood donation ban Featured Video 13:02 AI needs a lot of power and water. Can Mexico afford it? It might not look like it, but Queretaro is fast becoming Mexico’s data centre hub. The state plays host to 12 data centres, some owned and operated by the world’s biggest tech companies. ai In Focus President Donald Trump 2.0: What's next for the U.S.? How does a Donald Trump presidency affect human rights around the world? Context brings you a round-up of our coverage so far Updated: December 12, 2025 Land, biodiversity, life: Stories of Brazil’s nature defenders When land rights are under threat, nature is also at risk. Read the stories of those fighting to protect their homes from invaders. Published: October 02, 2025 Subscribe for free Exclusive commentary & unique insights. Always free. Directly to your inbox. Climate. Change. Weekly The climate emergency is transforming lives in every corner of the world. Hear from the frontlines of the fight to keep our planet liveable. Dataveillance Weekly Is your phone listening to you? Is Amazon mapping your home? Can Twitter really topple governments? Dataveillance takes you to the frontiers of our watched world. Policy, honestly Monthly This newsletter looks at policies and legislation from the perspective of the people they impact. We will trace a decision made in a meeting room to the person at the sharp end of it. Email address: Subscribe
