---
id: 4cc3cc5b9d0561fb
url: https://www.graphic.com.gh/features/features/ghana-news-vanuatu-kava-natural-remedy-for-stress-anxiety.html
title: 'Vanuatu Kava: Natural remedy for stress, anxiety - Graphic Online'
country: Ghana
domain: International Trade (Exports & Imports)
domain_score: 4
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-03-15'
feed_name: Graphic Online — features
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Kava in Vanuatu Vanuatu Kava: Natural remedy for stress, anxiety Prof. Raphael Nyarkotey Obu Features Mar - 15 - 2025 , 08:57 5 minutes read Recently, I wrote extensively on how Sobolo could be developed to improve heart health and also generate revenue for Ghana. In this article, I present how Vanuatu is cashing in on their kava. Kava, scientifically known as Piper methysticum, is a tropical plant native to the Pacific Islands. Traditionally integral to cultural and ceremonial practices, kava has earned international acclaim for its ability to foster relaxation, reduce stress and enhance overall mental well-being. As natural remedies gain global popularity, kava stands out due to its long history of use and scientific validation of its benefits. History, cultural significance Kava’s use spans over 3,000 years, predominantly in the Pacific Islands, including regions such as Fiji, Tonga, Vanuatu and Samoa. Kava Bar in Vanuatu In these societies, kava holds significant social, spiritual and medicinal importance. The name “kava” comes from the Tongan and Marquesan word meaning “bitter,” referencing the earthy flavour of its root. While Captain Cook named the plant “intoxicating pepper,” he did not discover it, as its use was long-established among Pacific Islanders. Traditionally, the root of the plant was ground or chewed, mixed with water, and consumed as a ceremonial drink during religious rituals, social gatherings and key events such as weddings and peace negotiations. These practices were believed to promote harmony, reduce conflict and facilitate communication. Kava’s symbolism is deeply embedded in Pacific Island mythology. For example, in Vanuatu, it is considered a sacred gift from the gods meant to bring people together. Over time, it became a symbol of respect and hospitality, with its consumption marking culturally significant moments. By the 18th century, European explorers such as Captain James Cook documented kava’s use, introducing it to the Western world. Kava's calming properties sparked widespread interest, eventually leading to the development of kava-based products for international markets. Today, kava remains central to social life in the South Pacific, akin to alcohol in Western societies, and retains a role in rituals and ceremonies. One study observed that in Tongan culture, kava drinking is strongly linked to social and ceremonial obligations, fostering male bonding and reinforcing relationships. However, there are also noted negative effects, such as feelings of laziness or excessive tiredness. Despite these challenges, kava is a cornerstone of Melanesian societies. What is Kava? Kava belongs to the pepper family, with its roots providing calming effects when prepared into drinks or extracts. The active compounds, known as kavalactones, interact with GABA receptors in the brain, playing a key role in reducing anxiety and promoting relaxation. Market value Kava has seen growing demand as a natural remedy in international markets, particularly in the United States, Australia and New Zealand, where it is marketed as a supplement for stress relief and mental wellness. The global kava market is estimated at USD 250 million annually, with expectations for continued growth as consumers seek natural alternatives for managing anxiety, stress and sleep disorders. Kava is available in various forms, such as powders, capsules, tinctures and teas, making it accessible to a diverse range of users. Economic impact As the heart of kava cultivation, Vanuatu is one of the largest producers and exporters of the plant. Kava plays a crucial role in the nation’s economy, supporting thousands of local farmers and contributing significantly to the GDP. The country’s kava exports generate about USD 12 million annually (Vanuatu Ministry of Agriculture, 2020), making kava one of its most valuable agricultural exports, alongside copra and vanilla. While the market is subject to fluctuations due to factors such as international regulations and export restrictions, Vanuatu remains a leading player in the global kava market. Safety, precautions While kava is generally safe when used responsibly, excessive or prolonged use may lead to liver toxicity in rare cases. To minimise risks, always choose high-quality kava products from trusted sources and avoid combining kava with alcohol or other liver-affecting substances. Additionally, kava can impair the ability to operate machinery or drive safely. It is important not to consume kava before engaging in such activities. Kava vs. Kratom Kava and kratom, two herbs often compared due to their relaxation effects, differ in their mechanisms of action. Kava is known for its euphoric and calming effects, primarily influencing GABA receptors, while kratom has stimulating effects in small doses and sedative effects in larger doses, acting on opioid and serotonin receptors. Both herbs induce euphoria, promote contentment, reduce stress and improve alertness. However, due to their distinct modes of action, combining them may offer enhanced effects. Conclusion Kava is a powerful natural remedy with a variety of health benefits, from alleviating stress and anxiety to improving sleep quality and potentially fighting cancer. With its rich cultural history and growing presence in global wellness markets, kava offers an effective and holistic solution for those seeking a calmer, more balanced life. When used responsibly, it can be a valuable ally in promoting mental and physical well-being. The writer is a Professor of Naturopathy, lawyer (Gambia Bar)/chartered health economist. E-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Our newsletter gives you access to a curated selection of the most important stories daily. Don't miss out. Subscribe Now. Sign Me Up Name From Around The Web © 2005 - 2026 Graphic Online | Graphic Communications Group Ltd.
