---
id: 5a16ec738d2ab750
url: https://www.graphic.com.gh/features/features/national-service-8-things-to-know-as-the-registration-portal-for-the-2025-26-service-year-reopens.html
title: 'National Service: 8 things to know as the registration portal for the 2025/26
  Service year reopens - Graphic Online'
country: Ghana
domain: Technology & Innovation
domain_score: 3
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-10-07'
feed_name: Graphic Online — features
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

National Service: 8 things to know as the registration portal for the 2025/26 Service year reopens National Service: 8 things to know as the registration portal for the 2025/26 Service year reopens GraphicOnline Features Oct - 07 - 2025 , 16:26 2 minutes read The National Service Secretariat (NSS) has reopened its registration portal for the 2025/26 service year with a new digital system designed to enhance transparency, security, and efficiency in the registration and deployment process. Below are eight key things every prospective national service personnel should know: 1. New Central Service Management Platform (CSMP) introduced The NSS has launched a new digital platform, the Central Service Management Platform (CSMP), to replace the old system. The platform goes live on Wednesday, October 8, 2025, and will streamline registration, verification, and payments. The new system follows a technical and forensic audit ordered by President John Dramani Mahama, which revealed flaws in the previous database. 2. Previous registrations declared invalid All registrations conducted in June 2025 have been declared null and void. The decision was made after discrepancies, including age-related inconsistencies, were discovered. The NSS has assured that legitimate applicants will be refunded any service fees already paid. 3. Registration period and official portal The registration window opens from Wednesday, October 8 to Wednesday, October 15, 2025. Prospective service personnel are required to register only through the new official website: www.gnsa.gov.gh 4. Service year commences in November The 2025/26 national service year begins on Saturday, November 1, 2025, when personnel are expected to report to their stations. Official duties commence on Monday, November 3, 2025. 5. New financial and payroll reforms To ensure timely payments and eliminate fraud, the NSS has implemented new IT reforms and internal controls. The Authority is collaborating with the Controller and Accountant-General’s Department to strengthen financial oversight and conduct periodic efficiency audits. These reforms aim to make payroll fraud a thing of the past. 6. Focus on employment and skills development The NSS is introducing a Skills Capacity Training Programme to provide graduates with practical and soft skills for post-service employability. This initiative forms part of the Secretariat’s plan to make the service year more career-oriented and impact-driven. 7. Expanded postings and pathways Beyond traditional placements, the NSS will roll out new service modules, including: Youth in Agriculture – A partnership with Agrimpact Limited offering hands-on training and funding opportunities. Community Improvement Programmes (CIP) – Covering public health, sanitation, literacy, and voter education. Private Sector Partnerships – Linking graduates to local and international job opportunities. 8. Access to guidelines and support Comprehensive registration guidelines and FAQs will be available on the NSS website starting Tuesday, October 7, 2025. Prospective personnel are encouraged to read all instructions carefully before completing their registration. The NSS reiterated its commitment to promoting efficiency, accountability, and innovation within the national service scheme to ensure that every graduate’s service year contributes meaningfully to Ghana’s development. Our newsletter gives you access to a curated selection of the most important stories daily. Don't miss out. Subscribe Now. Sign Me Up Name From Around The Web © 2005 - 2026 Graphic Online | Graphic Communications Group Ltd.
