---
id: 5cc81f99406eb9ae
url: https://www.graphic.com.gh/features/features/ghana-news-take-note-of-your-strengths-dear-leader.html
title: Take note of your strengths, dear leader! - Graphic Online
country: Ghana
domain: Policy & Institutional
domain_score: 3
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-02-28'
feed_name: Graphic Online — features
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Take note of your strengths, dear leader! Dag Heward-Mills Features Mar - 01 - 2025 , 09:57 4 minutes read Each person has ability that differs from the next person. No one was created “jack of all trades”. We learn from the Bible that each of us has been given gifts according to our different abilities. I have tried almost every field of ministry. I realise that I can do well in many areas. I play musical instruments quite well. I think that I am not bad as a singer. I am good at leading worship. I am absolutely thrilled by evangelism. Prophecy and the prophetic ministry intrigue me. I pastor churches and train leaders. I have founded many things in my short life. But which of these is my real calling? I recently asked the Lord, “What do you want me to do?” The Lord made it clear to me the office He has called me to stand in. Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 2 Timothy 2:1 God has asked you to be strong in the grace He has given you. Whatever grace He has given you, flow in it! The apostle Paul said we should be strong in the grace of God given to us. There are four well-known temperaments – choleric, sanguine, melancholic and phlegmatic. These temperaments reveal the natural strengths and weaknesses of our lives. Everyone should know his temperament and learn to understand himself. Knowing your temperament will help you to know your strengths and will also help you to flow in them. Know your temperament and flow in the grace given to you! A true leader knows where his strength lies. A leader can do many good things. When you discover your strengths, flow in them and become a great leader. Many people live and die without developing their strengths. Do not start an oil firm because everyone is in the oil business. Do not get into some form of media work because it seems fashionable. Four strengths to man • The strengths of a phlegmatic man. If you are phlegmatic, a grace has been given to you to do the same thing repeatedly. You have a natural strength to be slow, steadfast, repeated and unmoved. You have a grace to carry on in an unchanging environment and to perform monotonous tasks. Flow in it! Therefore, be a good teacher! Be a good pastor! Be a good headmaster! Be a good computer worker and stay behind your screen faithfully. This is a grace God has given you. Do not accept jobs in which you are a project manager. • The strengths of a melancholic man. A melancholic man has been given the grace and the strength to be interested in detail. Your eye naturally picks out things that are disorderly and confused. If you are melancholic, it is a grace given to you by God to be a talented, deep-thinking and faithful person. Go ahead and flow in your strengths and in your God-given gift. • The strengths of a choleric man. If you are choleric, you must recognise the grace and strength to be a driving personality, a finisher of projects and a natural manager. Walk in your strength of leadership and take decisions that move everyone forward. • The strengths of a sanguine man! If you are sanguine, the grace has been given to you to be cheerful, happy and pleasant at all times and in all circumstances. Do not despise this great strength. Flow in your strengths and do not let anybody put you down. You are the life of the group and your absence will cast a shadow on the entire team. Your absence will be felt more than anyone else. Stay in the area that makes you unique. Develop it and become strong. I know many businessmen who jump from one thing to another without developing their strengths. They often think that the next business is going to bring a quick return. There is no such thing as a quick fix. Forget about somebody else’s race. What does God have in store for you? What is your course? Is it the course of business? Then do not stray into politics! Is it the course of ministry? Then do not stray into politics! What are the strengths God has given you to run this course? Walk in your strength and achieve great things. When you stay with your strength, you are able to accomplish things in a seemingly stress-free way. It is because you are operating in your strength. Are you a leader? Then stay on course and everyone will see the gift of God upon your life. You have strengths—discover them! You have strengths — walk in them! May you discover your unique strengths, walk in them and achieve great things! The writer is the founder of the Lighthouse Group of churches. E-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Our newsletter gives you access to a curated selection of the most important stories daily. Don't miss out. Subscribe Now. Sign Me Up Name From Around The Web © 2005 - 2026 Graphic Online | Graphic Communications Group Ltd.
