---
id: 4450bf1fe052d01d
url: https://eos.org
title: Homepage - Eos
country: Rwanda
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-03-11'
feed_name: Google News — Rwanda agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

News Earth’s Climate Records Are Melting News Apollo Samples Told a Conflicting Story About Lunar Magnetism, Until Now Science Updates A New Twist on Robotic Float Data Reveals Critical Ocean Chemistry News Scientists Discover South America’s First Space Glass Fields, in Brazil Research Spotlights Sea Turtles, Shrinking Beaches, and Rising Seas News Tracing the Eruption History of a Volcano in a Tourist Hot Spot Science Updates Geostationary Satellite Applications Expand into Land Monitoring News These Underprotected Brazilian Wetlands Store Carbon with Staggering Density Research Spotlights Global Observations Reveal Rapid Reorganization of Ocean Nutrients Craters Monitoring Networks Plants Beaches Salt Research & Developments Temperatures Are Soaring in the Western United States. Climate Change is to Blame, Says a New Report. A new rapid analysis by World Weather Attribution suggests that, based on a combination of observations and modeling, climate change… by Emily Gardner 20 March 2026 20 March 2026 UCAR Sues Federal Agencies The lawsuit alleges that the federal agencies are “waging a campaign of retaliation” against Colorado and its institutions because the… by Emily Gardner 16 March 2026 18 March 2026 Senate Committee Approves Bill to Expand NOAA Capabilities The markup meeting, to discuss the NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2026 and the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Reauthorization… by Emily Gardner 4 March 2026 13 March 2026 Ionic Compounds: Worth Their Salt? Features Salt of the Earth: Vast Underground Salt Caverns Are Preserving Our History—and Just Might Power Our Future News How the Rise of a Salty Blob Led to the Fall of the Last Ice Age News What Salty Water Means for Wild Horses Editors' Highlights Episodic Tales of Salt News Salt May Be Key to Martian Mudflows Editors' Vox Salt: A Vital Compound for Science and Society “Everything looked normal, until recent follow-up observations revealed a fourth planet occupying the outskirts of the system—a rocky world 1.7 times the size of Earth that basically shouldn’t be there.” The Planet That Shouldn’t Be There Let the Scientists Tell It Science Updates How to Accelerate Advances in Ecological Forecasting Developing shared cyberinfrastructure can enhance predictions of ecological change and enable improved decisionmaking for resource management and public well-being. by Jacob A. Zwart , Cameron Thompson , Hassan Moustahfid , Jessica Burnett and Michael Dietze Features Discovering Venus on Iceland by Debra L. Buczkowski , Jennifer L. Whitten , Scott Hensley , Daniel C. Nunes and Marc Jaeger Features The Looming Data Loss That Threatens Public Safety and Prosperity by Thomas R. Karl , Stephen C. Diggs , Franklin Nutter , Kevin Reed and Terence Thompson Features Satellite Radar Advances Could Transform Global Snow Monitoring by Randall Bonnell , Jack Tarricone , Hans-Peter Marshall , Elias Deeb and Carrie Vuyovich Science Updates Lessons and Lingering Questions from Collapsing Basaltic Calderas by Kyle R. Anderson , Kendra J. Lynn , Ashton F. Flinders , Thomas Shea and Michael Poland Opinion Poor Health and Systemic Inequity Fuel Environmental Harm by Ishani Ray Creating Communities to Help Interdisciplinary Scientists Thrive by Laura Vang Rasmussen , Rachael Garrett , A. Sofia Nanni , Navin Ramankutty and Ariane de Bremond What Americans Lose If Their National Center for Atmospheric Research Is Dismantled by Carlos Martinez When Should a Tsunami Not Be Called a Tsunami? by Diana J. M. Greenslade and Matthew C. Wheeler Postcards From the Field View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard View this Postcard
