---
id: 9865194317092a66
url: https://www.fao.org
title: Home | Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
country: Rwanda
domain: Food Systems & Value Chain
domain_score: 4
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-12-16'
feed_name: Google News — Rwanda agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Home | Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Share Close International Day of Forests 2026 In focus Celebrating forests and economies This International Day of Forests, explore how forests support economies, livelihoods and the environment Highlights Director-General Story FAO report: agriculture remains a lifeline for rural families in war-affected Ukraine FAO Regional Office for Europe and Central Asia News FAO celebrates 2026 International Day of Forests and World Water Day Events in Rome highlight vital linkages between forests and water FAO’s Food and Agriculture Museum and Network links with new WOW Agrifood Museum in Siena FAO Director-General attends inauguration of the University of Siena’s new museum dedicated to agrifood systems and innovation Interactive story Watching over our forests Discover the facts shaping the future of our forests. In Focus Where water flows, equality grows Join World Water Day 2026 and discover how gender equality in agricultural water management is key to achieving food security for all. In Focus FAO response to global food security challenges Data analyses, policy recommendations, and actions on the ground. Story Where there is water there’s a way Ahead of World Water Day on 22 March, read how a water reservoir constructed in southern Angola is bringing better harvests, more options, and greater resilience for farmers. Campaign International Year of the Woman Farmer 2026 Discover how women farmers drive food security, nutrition and economic resilience and join the call to strengthen women’s empowerment across agrifood systems. Publication Global Agrifood Implications of the 2026 Conflict in the Middle East Impacts on energy and fertilizer trade, and food security. Director-General FAO’s Food and Agriculture Museum and Network links with new WOW Agrifood Museum in Siena FAO Director-General attends inauguration of the University of Siena’s new museum dedicated to agrifood systems and innovation Join the conversation Facebook Addressing gender inequalities is critical to achieving water and food security X What are rangelands exactly? Instagram When women farmers thrive, everyone benefits Voices of Impact FAO Director-General’s Message for International Day of Forests and World Water Day 2026 19/03/2026 In a joint message for International Day of Forests and World Water Day, FAO Director-General QU Dongyu highlights the vital link between these two resources. His message emphasizes that while billions rely on forests and water, access remains unequal. Removing barriers for women in water management is fundamental to sustainable development. Watch the video to learn more. Video Forests mean business 18/03/2026 Forests grow more than wood, they grow livelihoods. Podcast Feeding and regreening: The micro-gardens of Dakar 23/11/2022 In Dakar, Senegal, the massive rural urban migration of these last decades led to losses of agricultural land, triggering food shortages and soaring food prices. Listen to how FAO and the local authorities are working together with women on a micro-gardening project to reduce food insecurity in the city. Listen on Spotify Listen on Apple Podcasts Data Annual forest area net change, by country and area 1990–2025 Thanks to slowing deforestation and gains in forest area, net forest loss dropped from 10.7 million ha per year (1990-2000) to 4.12 million ha (2015-2025). Let’s see how that looks around the world. Source: https://fra-data.fao.org/assessments/fra/2025/WO/home/overview (2025) 2020 World 31.2% 2010 World 31.5% In depth In Focus Discover the enhanced FAO Transparency Portal Explore new dashboards on programme, budget and HR, alongside updated project data, for deeper insights into how we work. Publication Medium Term Plan and Programme of Work The Director-General’s Medium Term Plan 2026-29 and Programme of Work and Budget 2026-27. In Focus FAO Data Lab The FAO Data Lab for Statistical Innovation modernizes the statistical business process, with a specific focus on emergency contexts, when having access to timely information is very important. FAO and the SDGs FAO supports governments and partners to design the right policies and programmes to end hunger, promote food security and promote sustainable agriculture for millions of people around the world. Hover the mouse over an SDG icon for more information A world free from hunger and malnutrition where food and agriculture contributes to improving the living standards of all FAO works with governments and partners to empower some of the world’s most marginalized people to end rural poverty. FAO helps ensure food security by developing ways of growing food that will work in the future so that millions of people don’t go hungry. Good health starts with nutrition. FAO sets global standards and works with governments and the private sector to ensure food quality and safety throughout the food chain. FAO invests in educational systems for rural communities and supports improved access to primary education and school meals in order to create equal opportunities for all and chances of lifelong learning. FAO supports gender equality in the agricultural sector in an effort to raise levels of nutrition in local communities and improve agricultural productivity. FAO works with governments to ensure water use in agriculture is made more efficient, equitable and environmentally friendly. FAO promotes the use of renewable energies and works to ensure access to modern energy services across the food chain. FAO seeks better economic opportunities for all by investing in sustainable agricultural practices and food systems that reduce inequalities and create decent jobs. FAO seeks to secure a future for rural communities via investments in transportation, irrigation, food storage facilities and communication technologies. FAO works with countries and partners to generate employment in rural areas, ensure access to natural resources for the most vulnerable and connect farmers to markets. FAO works to improve urban healthcare, water quality and rethink city region food systems to help deter the negative effects of sprawling urbanisation. FAO coordinates major global initiatives and projects to tackle food waste and loss, partnering with international organisations, the private sector and civil society. FAO supports countries in responding to the threats of climate change by providing advice, data and tools for better agricultural policies and practices. FAO, in partnership with governments and fishing communities, implements best practices in fisheries to ensure our oceans are protected as a means of livelihoods. FAO promotes sustainable approaches to natural resource management and supports endeavours that promote a balance between conservation and development initiatives. FAO plays a critical role in peacebuilding, restoring rural livelihoods, building resilience and participatory approaches to policymaking. FAO acts as a neutral policymaking forum and develops partnerships with all concerned with food and agriculture to ensure a world free from hunger. FAO supports governments and partners to design the right policies and programmes to end hunger, promote food security and promote sustainable agriculture for millions of people around the world. FAO works with governments and partners to empower some of the world’s most marginalized people to end rural poverty. FAO helps ensure food security by developing ways of growing food that will work in the future so that millions of people don’t go hungry. Good health starts with nutrition. FAO sets global standards and works with governments and the private sector to ensure food quality and safety throughout the food chain. FAO invests in educational systems for rural communities and supports improved access to primary education and school meals in order to create equal opportunities for all and chances of lifelong learning. FAO supports gender equality in the agricultural sector in an effort to raise levels of nutrition in local communities and improve agricultural productivity. FAO works with governments to ensure water use in agriculture is made more efficient, equitable and environmentally friendly. FAO promotes the use of renewable energies and works to ensure access to modern energy services across the food chain. FAO seeks better economic opportunities for all by investing in sustainable agricultural practices and food systems that reduce inequalities and create decent jobs. FAO seeks to secure a future for rural communities via investments in transportation, irrigation, food storage facilities and communication technologies. FAO works with countries and partners to generate employment in rural areas, ensure access to natural resources for the most vulnerable and connect farmers to markets. FAO works to improve urban healthcare, water quality and rethink city region food systems to help deter the negative effects of sprawling urbanisation. FAO coordinates major global initiatives and projects to tackle food waste and loss, partnering with international organisations, the private sector and civil society. FAO supports countries in responding to the threats of climate change by providing advice, data and tools for better agricultural policies and practices. FAO, in partnership with governments and fishing communities, implements best practices in fisheries to ensure our oceans are protected as a means of livelihoods. FAO promotes sustainable approaches to natural resource management and supports endeavours that promote a balance between conservation and development initiatives. FAO plays a critical role in peacebuilding, restoring rural livelihoods, building resilience and participatory approaches to policymaking. FAO acts as a neutral policymaking forum and develops partnerships with all concerned with food and agriculture to ensure a world free from hunger. Discover the Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS) This is the modal content Video Global Agrifood Implications of the 2026 Conflict in the Middle East Watch -->
