---
id: 9b98e99cc45f3455
url: https://iucn.org
title: Home page
country: Rwanda
domain: Environmental & Climate
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-05-23'
feed_name: Google News — Rwanda agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Components United for Life & Livelihoods The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) is a membership Union uniquely composed of both government and civil society organisations. By harnessing the experience, resources and reach of its more than 1,400 Member organisations and the input of some 17,000 experts, IUCN is the global authority on the status of the natural world and the measures needed to safeguard it. Explore our work Find a resource IUCN Statement IUCN and the IUCN World Commission on Protected Areas (WCPA) condemn attack at… IUCN Statement IUCN President and Director General Statement on International Women’s Day 2026 News New RISE Challenge grantees and guidance launched to address gender-based… News Protecting species in a changing landscape: new study maps key threats in… Who we are A powerful Union Heading Our Members Description 1 IUCN Members include national and subnational governments and government agencies as well as non-governmental and indigenous peoples’ organisations from over 160 countries. Learn more about our members The latest from our members Embedding education into the heart of national… How EARTHDAY.ORG helped transform the global NDC landscape Preserving Earth’s last sanctuaries: A call for… From boreal forests near the Arctic Circle to dense tropical jungles south of the Equator, Earth… Read our magazine 'Unite for Nature' IUCN Secretariat Hundreds of committed staff in more than 60 countries provide data, analysis and convening support to Members, and implement direct conservation action. Director General and leadership IUCN expert Commissions IUCN Commissions are networks of scientists and experts providing IUCN and its Members with technical and policy advice to drive conservation and sustainable development. Learn more about IUCN Commissions What we do Our knowledge and tools are based on the most up-to-date science. They enable society, economies and nature to thrive together. Science-led approach Informing policy Find a resource Biodiversity Biodiversity Sustainable food and agricultural systems Assessing ecosystems Biodiversity and health Ecosystem restoration Freshwater species Invasive Alien Species Managing ecosystems Marine species Species conservation action Species conservation science IUCN monitors species and ecosystems, and steers policy and action to protect and restore the natural world. Biodiversity Business engagement Business Engagement Sustainable food and agricultural systems Biodiversity net-gain Extractive, energy and infrastructure Fisheries and aquaculture Livelihoods and sustainable use Plastic and other pollution Tourism and sport Human wellbeing depends on nature and economic development can no longer come at nature’s expense. IUCN works to help countries mainstream nature into economic decisions, including making the private sector part of the solution for people and nature. Business engagement Climate change Climate Change Sustainable food and agricultural systems Ecosystem-based Adaptation and Resilience Ecosystem-based mitigation Nature-based Solutions for climate Ocean and climate change Green, Just Energy Transition IUCN monitors the impacts of climate change on nature, and guides the conservation and restoration of ecosystems to help mitigate and adapt to it. Climate change Freshwater and water security Freshwater and water security Sustainable food and agricultural systems Fisheries and aquaculture Freshwater species Livelihoods and sustainable use Plastic and other pollution Transboundary water governance and diplomacy IUCN works to provide everyone with fair access to clean water, and to protect the freshwater ecosystems on which humanity depends. Freshwater and water security Governance - law and rights Governance - law and rights Sustainable food and agricultural systems Gender equality Global and transboundary frameworks High seas Indigenous Peoples Legal training National legal systems Transboundary water governance and diplomacy Equality and equity underpin sustainable development. IUCN works to enhance the agency of all those who are marginalised due to factors such as gender, class, age, (dis)ability, ethnicity, race or sexuality, and to ensure environmental law is effective and just. Governance - law and rights Nature-based Solutions Nature-based Solutions Sustainable food and agricultural systems Disaster risk reduction Ecosystem restoration Nature-based Solutions for climate Nature-based Solutions for cities IUCN Global Standard for Nature-based Solutions Nature-based SolutionsTM leverage nature and the power of healthy ecosystems to protect people, optimise infrastructure and safeguard a stable and biodiverse future. Nature-based Solutions Ocean and coasts Oceans and coasts Fisheries and aquaculture High seas Marine ecosystems Marine species Ocean and climate change Plastic and other pollution IUCN works to conserve coastal, marine and polar ecosystems, and the many benefits they provide for humanity. Ocean and coasts Protected areas and land use Protected areas and land use Sustainable food and agricultural systems Drylands and land degradation Effective protected areas Forests Livelihoods and sustainable use Marine ecosystems World Heritage IUCN works to protect ecosystems, promote the sustainable use of landscapes and advance justice and equity in conservation. Protected areas and land use Close Close Learn more about our work Our RESULTS Driving policy and action for people and planet 169,420 species Description assessed on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species TM Learn More 210+ million hectares Description pledged for restoration under the Bonn Challenge Learn more 1,466 resolutions Description and recommendations passed at IUCN assemblies since 1948 Learn More 3,500+ reports Description published by IUCN Learn more 600+ sites Description in 60 countries with or working towards certification on the IUCN Green List of Protected and Conserved Areas Learn more Our history 75 years of vision and impact Shortly after the Second World War, IUCN’s founders came together under the shared belief that no single government or organisation can address the challenges facing our planet alone. Each of the seven and a half decades since has reinforced the truth of that belief, and proved the value of a global Union dedicated to solving the issues facing humanity and its relationship with nature, on which humanity depends. Learn more about our history
