---
id: d7e9b9a59316ba1d
url: https://www.forestsnews.org
title: CIFOR-ICRAF Forests News
country: Rwanda
domain: Environmental & Climate
domain_score: 4
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-12-15'
feed_name: Google News — Rwanda agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

TOP STORY The Congo Basin’s future is at stake. Here’s what must change 11 min read The Congo Basin’s underfunding is not just a financial challenge. It reflects deeper institutional, diplomatic and scientific gaps that money alone cannot fix. The World’s most important forest gets the least money. Here’s why that should alarm you. 8 min read The Congo Basin is one of the world’s most vital forest ecosystems, yet receives only a small share of global forest finance. From hunting to enterprise: How training and cooperatives are transforming livelihoods 6 min read In Nyawa Chiefdom, southern Zambia, enterprise training is reshaping conservation and community livelihoods. R ecent All location Global Europe Africa Asia Pacific Latin America Loading… Beyond fish and tourism: The hidden value of the Indian Ocean 6 min read EN Experts are calling for a broader approach to ocean governance that recognizes the ecological, social and cultural benefits coastal communities depend on. Centering rights in conservation: Lessons from the Andean-Amazon region 7 min read EN , ES New conservation dialogues across the Andean-Amazon region are helping governments, Indigenous Peoples and civil society co-create governance models that place rights, participation and environmental justice at the centre of biodiversity protection. How to better assess health risks from wild animal meat 6 min read EN Consistent terms, clear research, and supply-chain insights key to fair policy, study finds From seeds to systems: Building the foundations of ecological and ecosystem restoration 7 min read EN , ES Why restoration success depends as much on seed systems as on trees in the ground. Genetic resources for food security in Africa disappearing 7 min read EN Experts urge stronger conservation, cooperation, investments, training People in the middle: Why coordination gaps challenge forest action 7 min read EN , ES , ID Fragmented policies across forest, agriculture, trade and finance leave smallholders navigating misaligned systems. The online loophole: How a seed purchase undermines a ‘just bioeconomy’ 6 min read EN , ES , ID The ability to sequence and replicate medicinal plants from commercially purchased seeds is reshaping the bioeconomy, raising new questions about equity, sovereignty and the future of benefit sharing for countries of origin. Native tree species need support to achieve greater uptake by planters, scientists say 7 min read EN , ES , ID , PT-BR Improving access to quality seed and better guidance could help rebalance tree-planting choices From dialogue to action: Building on the five steps to transform food systems through agroecology 4 min read EN As conversations on agroecology deepen, a shared framework is moving from principle to practice, shaping tools, communities and concrete action Regulating global trade without harming agroforestry farms? 5 min read EN , FR , ID The debate over the European Union(EU)’s deforestation-free regulation and its unintended risks Is simplicity always best? 5 min read EN Scientists debate if a complex landscapes approach should be embraced 25% of world’s surface can be better protected with rights 4 min read EN Rights emerge as greatest hope for healthy planet at weekend’s GLF Bonn 2019 Adjust the sail of Rights to brave the climate storm, urge GLF delegates 4 min read EN Indigenous people key to solving climate crises and protecting the forests Beyond fish and tourism: The hidden value of the Indian Ocean 6 min read EN Experts are calling for a broader approach to ocean governance that recognizes the ecological, social and cultural benefits coastal communities depend on. How to better assess health risks from wild animal meat 6 min read EN Consistent terms, clear research, and supply-chain insights key to fair policy, study finds From seeds to systems: Building the foundations of ecological and ecosystem restoration 7 min read EN , ES Why restoration success depends as much on seed systems as on trees in the ground. Genetic resources for food security in Africa disappearing 7 min read EN Experts urge stronger conservation, cooperation, investments, training REDD+ can make poor households more vulnerable 5 min read EN , ID Analysis of two Indonesian projects finds neutral or negative impacts on household income Magic beans: Can Managalas capitalize on coffee? 6 min read EN , ID Nutting out supply chain challenges on one Papua New Guinean plateau Turning degraded lands into a forest-positive bioeconomy in Indonesia 4 min read EN , ID More food, energy and climate resilience without risking further deforestation Pods of promise: Could vanilla bring sustainable development to Papua New Guinea’s Managalas Plateau? 6 min read EN , ID In the rainforests of Papua New Guinea’s Managalas Plateau, a delicate orchid is being cultivated as a pathway to sustainable livelihoods. Vanilla promises high returns with minimal forest clearance, yet fragile supply chains, labour demands and poor infrastructure continue to stand in the way. In the flooded Amazon, communities strive to adapt to a changing climate 8 min read EN , ES , ID Supporting measures for the sustainable use of resources is key for Amazonian ecosystems and livelihoods Keeping track of nature in a fast-growing nation 5 min read EN , ES In Guyana’s Rupununi, Indigenous monitors and scientists are teaming up with AI and DNA tools to track biodiversity — shaping the world’s first national system Conservation dialogues advance rights-based approaches in the Amazon 5 min read EN , ES Placing communities at the centre for a more effective and equitable conservation How Latin America can lead on climate, biodiversity & the circular economy 7 min read EN , ES , ID A Q&A with CIFOR-ICRAF’s Director for Latin America and Director of Programmes and Platforms Browse all stories Videos Watch all video stories Video Preserving Africa's Biodiversity Video Regional Centres of Excellence for Biodiversity and Forests Forests News is a global news platform about forests , agroforestry , land restoration , equity , livelihoods , climate and more. MOST POPULAR Biodiversity and livelihoods at the centre: Planting native or introduced tree species 29 Jan 2026 7 min read Gedeo’s agroforestry legacy: Farming without losing forests 29 Dec 2025 4 min read From drought to abundance: How climate-smart farming is transforming lives in Eastern Rwanda 15 Dec 2025 9 min read ANALYSIS The World’s most important forest gets the least money. Here’s why that should alarm you. 20 Mar 2026 8 min read As Southeast Asia’s haze dissipates, managing peatlands is more urgent than ever 10 Dec 2025 6 min read The $4 Misunderstanding: Why the TFFF isn’t only about the money 07 Nov 2025 9 min read Land degradation could cost us the Earth 10 Oct 2025 6 min read Social stream 3 6 Instagram Video View on Instagram A nalysis See all analysis The World’s most important forest gets the least money. Here’s why that should alarm you. The Congo Basin is one of the world’s most vital forest ecosystems, yet receives only a small share of global forest finance. 20 Mar 2026 8 min read As Southeast Asia’s haze dissipates, managing peatlands is more urgent than ever New ASEAN Peatland Management Strategy set to address multiple crises 10 Dec 2025 6 min read The $4 Misunderstanding: Why the TFFF isn’t only about the money Brazil’s Tropical Forest Forever Facility aims to pay nations to keep forests standing—not to outbid deforestation, but to change the economics of governance. 07 Nov 2025 9 min read Land degradation could cost us the Earth How can we craft and implement policy to restore our planet? 10 Oct 2025 6 min read Features From Belém to the world: Could Brazil’s ‘mutirão’ reshape climate action at COP30? If there’s one word Brazil wants the world to learn before the UNFCCC COP30 in Belém do Pará, taking place from 10 to 21 November, it’s mutirão. With Brazil mutirão COP30 becoming a rallying call, the host country is urging the world to embrace the spirit of collective action — rolling up sleeves and working… 01 Oct 2025 5 min read Southern Africa’s agroecology network charts a path for regional food sovereignty 09 Feb 2026 7 min read Africa Food System Forum 2025 in Dakar: Africa’s solutions pave the way for sustainable food systems 08 Feb 2026 6 min read Ethiopian National Agroecology Strategy validated 06 Feb 2026 6 min read Magic beans: Can Managalas capitalize on coffee? 04 Feb 2026 6 min read Ethiopia launches its National Agroforestry Development Strategy 01 Feb 2026 5 min read Biodiversity and livelihoods at the centre: Planting native or introduced tree species 29 Jan 2026 7 min read Turning degraded lands into a forest-positive bioeconomy in Indonesia 28 Jan 2026 4 min read Pods of promise: Could vanilla bring sustainable development to Papua New Guinea’s Managalas Plateau? 23 Jan 2026 6 min read When clans come together: Can collective stewardship protect the Managalas Plateau? 21 Jan 2026 9 min read Green jobs restore hope and landscapes in southwest Ethiopia 19 Jan 2026 8 min read
