---
id: dd5ed283563b32c9
url: https://borgenproject.org
title: The Borgen Project | Downsize Poverty
country: Rwanda
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-09-23'
feed_name: Google News — Rwanda agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

The Borgen Project | Downsize Poverty THE BORGEN PROJECT WE FIGHT FOR THE UNDERDOG Help Now About Success Tracker Methodology Act Now About Us Influential Ally for the World’s Poor The Borgen Project is an influential ally for the world’s poor. We go big. We work with leaders of the most powerful countries in the world to improve their response to humanitarian issues. For over 20-years, The Borgen Project has been advancing policies and programs that have large scale impact for people hit hardest by war, famine and poverty. Quick Ways to Help The Two Quickest and Most Impactful Ways to Help Donate Your donation helps The Borgen Project to uplift communities, advocate for those in need, and create a more equitable world for all. Donate Email Congress In just one minute, you can ensure that your elected officials are informed about urgent global issues that demand their attention. Email Congress today! Email Congress “For two decades, The Borgen Project has stood in the gap for millions of people facing poverty and food insecurity around the world. As chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I’m grateful for their partnership on initiatives like my Global Fragility Act, which is working to stabilize volatile areas and address the root causes of fragility in developing countries. I’m proud to serve as an Honorary Board Member at The Borgen Project and look forward to seeing their work continue to change our world over the next 20 years.” – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) “The Borgen Project has spent the past 20-years working to combat extreme poverty, building bipartisan support around the United States towards this goal. Their tireless efforts have helped bring global poverty reduction to the forefront of U.S. foreign policy and been instrumental in advancing policies and programs that meaningfully reduce poverty around the world.” – Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA) Media Mentions Justice Begins Where Inequality Ends Join Our Mission Rating The Borgen Project Gold Transparency Seal from Candid. Impact Ninja named The Borgen Project one of the 9 Best Charities Impacting Developing Countries. Donate “The Borgen Project is an incredible nonprofit organization that is addressing poverty and hunger and working towards ending them.” -The Huffington Post Inside The Borgen Project Contact About Financials President Board of Directors Board of Advisors International Links UK Email Parliament UK Donate Canada Email Parliament Get Smarter Global Poverty 101 Global Poverty… The Good News Global Poverty & U.S. Jobs Global Poverty and National Security Innovative Solutions to Poverty Global Poverty & Aid FAQ’s Ways to Help Call Congress Email Congress Donate 30 Ways to Help Volunteer Ops Internships Courses & Certificates The Podcast Scroll to top Scroll to top Scroll to top
