---
id: 62f07197ee4cd718
url: https://www.ifc.org
title: International Finance Corporation (IFC)
country: Sierra Leone
domain: Investment Readiness & Enterprise
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-05-06'
feed_name: Google News — Sierra Leone agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

International Finance Corporation (IFC) Skip to Main Navigation Strengthening Argentina’s Critical Minerals Sector New partnership with Rio Tinto on Rincón Lithium Project creating jobs across the minerals value chain. Read More The Latest from IFC How to create jobs for the world's 1.2 billion new workers Blog Youth growth in developing countries boosts the labor force; Ajay calls for job investment to spur global progress. Read More How Agrivoltaics Meets Food and Energy Needs EMERGING MARKET INSIGHTS Dual land use can boost jobs and growth. Read More Improving Access to Essential Medicines Through Local Manufacturing in Africa Story Scaling local production of essential medicines and vaccines to build resilient, self-reliant health systems. Read Story What We Do A strong and engaged private sector is indispensible to ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity. That's where IFC comes in - we have more than 60 years experience in unlocking private investment, creating markets and opportunities where they are needed most. How to Apply for Financing Products and Services We provide investment, advice, and asset management — offerings that are mutually reinforcing and can be tailored to a client’s specific needs. Learn More Sectors and Expertise We apply our financial resources, technical expertise, global experience, and innovative thinking to help our partners overcome financial, operational, and other challenges. Learn More Our Impact IFC works with clients to create the opportunities which help the private sector mobilize solutions and finance to solve development challenges. Learn More IFC at a glance IFC — a member of the World Bank Group — is the largest global development institution focused on the private sector in emerging markets. We work in more than 100 countries, using our capital, expertise, and influence to create markets and opportunities in developing countries. In fiscal year 2025, IFC committed a record $71.7 billion to private companies and financial institutions in developing countries, leveraging private sector solutions and mobilizing private capital to create a world free of poverty on a livable planet. 62.5 Million People connected to the internet 11.3 Million People supplied with power $226.5 Billion In Trade Finance Volume $516.9 Billion In Impact from SME Loans BROWSE BY REGION See where we work IFC’s impact spans more than 100 nations. We empower entrepreneurs all over the world, turning bold ideas into engines of inclusive growth creating millions of jobs, uplifting lives, and transforming communities. Africa East Asia and the Pacific Europe Latin America and the Caribbean Middle East and Central Asia South Asia Featured Publications Innovation in Green Technologies Report Emerging market economies are claiming a rising share of trade in products associated with the new technologies that help reduce pollution, limit greenhouse gas emissions, and help mitigate the impact of extreme weather. Which Firms Create More Jobs? EMERGING MARKET INSIGHTS High-growth firms, especially young ones, create up to two-thirds of new jobs. These firms are often in their first five years and add workers at a fast pace. Financing Firm Growth: The Role of Capital in Low- and Middle-Income Countries Report New World Bank Group research shows that over 30 years, equity and bond markets in developing economies have driven $4 trillion in capital, 5% more jobs, and faster growth. Stay Informed Subscribe to our newsletters to receive the latest news and updates on private sector development across the globe. Subscribe
