---
id: b79939f072b7d658
url: https://igrownews.com
title: AgTech News – Global Agriculture Technology Developments
country: Sierra Leone
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-09-29'
feed_name: Google News — Sierra Leone agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

AgTech News – Global Agriculture Technology Developments Skip to content × AgTech Insights & Innovation Welcome to the Hub of Agriculture Technology From groundbreaking advancements in precision farming and robotics to sustainable innovations in controlled-environment agriculture, our coverage brings you the most comprehensive AgTech news, insights, and resources available. Whether you're exploring emerging technologies, tracking market movements, or seeking expert analysis, our platform is your go-to source for staying informed. Stay inspired, stay connected, and stay ahead of the curve with the latest in AgTech. Latest AgTech News Stay updated with daily developments in agriculture technology. From automation to AI, we bring you the stories that matter. AgroFood Mergers & Acquisitions Fresh Del Monte Completes $285M Acquisition of Del Monte Foods Assets Fresh Del Monte completed the acquisition of select Del Monte Foods assets for approximately $285 million, funded through cash on hand by Sepehr Achard 20th March 2026 Appointments New Technology In Agriculture Robotics Carbon Robotics Appoints CFO and Surpasses $100M Revenue Milestone Carbon Robotics appointed Kevan Krysler as Chief Financial Officer, bringing nearly 30 years of technology company experience to the agriculture AI leader. by Sepehr Achard 20th March 2026 AgroFood Digital Solutions RE:Circle Organics' TraceOS Platform Targets California Climate Disclosure Requirements RE:Circle Organics offers TraceOS™ for effective emissions tracking, aiding businesses in meeting California's compliance requirements. by Sepehr Achard 20th March 2026 Discover More News Here Connect with AgTech Leaders Worldwide Join the iGrow Network to connect with founders, operators, investors, and solution providers across global AgTech markets. Access curated market trends, discover active companies, and engage with industry peers shaping the future of agriculture. Explore the iGrow Network Discover Our Plans AgTech News By Category Industry-Specific AgTech News Stay up to date with the latest AgTech developments across key industry sectors. From precision agriculture and controlled environment farming to biotech and robotics, explore curated updates tailored to your interests. Precision Ag News | Vertical Farming News | Greenhouse News | Irrigation News | Plant Science News | Regenerative Ag News | Livestock News | AI In Agriculture News Get Weekly AgTech News & Insights 📩 Subscribe to AgTech Digest for weekly updates on funding, trends, and expert insights. ✅ Join 3,500+ AgTech professionals ✅ Stay ahead of market trends ✅ Exclusive reports & interviews Sign Up Now → Listen to the AgTech Podcast Latest Episodes Today's AgTech News AgTech Automation Scales Amid Global Labor Shortage Fresh Del Monte Completes $285M Acquisition of Del Monte Foods Assets Carbon Robotics Appoints CFO and Surpasses $100M Revenue Milestone RE:Circle Organics' TraceOS Platform Targets California Climate Disclosure Requirements Women in Agribusiness Launches Special Female Producer Award Category for 2026 Itafos Reports $558 Million Revenue for 2025, Announces Production Records at Conda and Arraias Facilities Want Weekly AgTech Updates? 📩 Subscribe to our newsletters for weekly updates on funding, trends, and expert insights. ✅ Join 3,500+ AgTech professionals ✅ Stay ahead of market trends ✅ Exclusive reports & interviews Subscribe Today Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experience, we use technologies like cookies to store and access device information. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent
