---
id: bd28223cb8dd3e8e
url: https://farmonaut.com
title: Home
country: Sierra Leone
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-12-20'
feed_name: Google News — Sierra Leone agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Satellite-Powered Smart Insights Earth observation insights for Mining, Agriculture, Carbon and Beyond Mining Agriculture Product Traceability Wildfire Alerts Carbon Monitoring Finance Fleet Tracking Satellite Mineral Detection We deliver lab-validated mineral detection with over 90% accuracy , powered by advanced satellite analytics. Trusted across 20+ countries , our technology helps identify mineral zones with confidence. Get Started Contact Us Smart Agriculture Monitoring Monitor crop health, soil moisture, and vegetation index using satellite data. Empower farmers and agribusinesses with real-time insights to boost productivity and sustainability. Get Started Learn More Product Traceability Track agricultural produce from farm to shelf with our traceability solutions. Ensure food safety, compliance, and transparency throughout the supply chain. Contact Us Learn More Wildfire Alerts Detect and monitor wildfires in real-time with satellite-powered alerts. Reduce risk, respond faster, and safeguard assets, ecosystems, and communities. Contact Us Learn More Carbon Monitoring Measure, report, and verify carbon emissions and sequestration using satellite-based MRV systems. Support climate-smart practices and carbon credit programs with accuracy. Contact Us Learn More Agri-Loan and Insurance Make informed agri-loan decisions with satellite data insights. Evaluate field conditions, crop patterns, and risks to enable secure, scalable, and data-backed financing. Contact Us Learn More Fleet Tracking & Management Track and manage vehicles, machinery, and equipment in real-time. Improve route optimization, fuel efficiency, and operational productivity with satellite-backed fleet tracking. Contact Us Learn More Trusted by Industry Leaders Worldwide OUR IMPACT Trusted by People Like You, Across the World Hectares Successfully Monitored + Minerals Detected + Countries Covered 1 + Our global impact is built on lab-tested, high-accuracy satellite-based mineral intelligence . Trusted by mining and exploration teams across multiple countries, our platform monitors large land areas, identifies mineral-rich zones, and supports confident, data-driven decisions. SUCCESS STORIES Discover how mining teams use Farmonaut to monitor sites, detect minerals, and support exploration decisions. High-Grade Alluvial Gold Discovery We identify exceptionally rich alluvial gold averaging 64 g/t across 100 acres in Kenya... Read case study Gold Prospectivity Mapped in Tanzania We identify high‑potential gold zones across a 1,000‑hectare area in Tanzania... Read case study Non-Alluvial Gold Detection We identify non-alluvial gold potential across a high-grade 4.2-hectare target in Kenya... Read case study Discovery in Remote Andean Terrain We identify 3.2 g/t gold across a 113-hectare remote Andean terrain using satellite analysis... Read case study DEMO AND PARTNERSHIPS Discover how our technology works for you Convert complex geological data into actionable drilling insights with our advanced 3D gold prospect analysis platform, built for accurate and confident mineral exploration decisions. Get Started DATA YOU CAN TRUST Trusted by Miners. Proven by Labs. Driven by Satellite Intelligence. Explore More Verified with Independent Lab Testing Our results are not just claims — they are independently tested and verified by certified mineral assay laboratories. Get Started OUR SOLUTIONS Innovative solutions transforming mining, agriculture, forestry, and climate resilience with reliable insights Explore More Discover Mineral-Rich Zones Faster with AI and Satellite Technology We provide accurate mineral zone detection with minimal on-site work, delivering safe, fast, and cost-effective discovery. Get Started Explore More Personalized Advice, Smarter Decisions with Your Digital Farming Partner From seed to harvest, Jeevn AI’s personalized farm advisory ensures you take the right steps for your land and your crop. Explore More See your fields from space. Grow smarter on Earth. We provide satellite-based precision agriculture with real-time insights on crop health, soil moisture, and weather to improve decisions and boost yields. Explore More Plantation Management for Growth & Sustainability Our technology provides accurate tree counting along with growth and carbon tracking, helping you achieve both productivity and sustainability goals Explore More Secure, quick, and fair crop loan and insurance decisions By combining geospatial insights with farm monitoring, we enable banks and agribusinesses to make informed credit and insurance decisions while protecting farmers against uncertainty. Explore More Bring trust, transparency, and accountability to every step of your supply chain Our blockchain solutions securely track crops from the field to the market, ensuring product authenticity, reducing fraud, and meeting global compliance standards. Explore More Plantation Management for Growth & Sustainability Our technology provides accurate tree counting along with growth and carbon tracking, helping you achieve both productivity and sustainability goals Explore More Sustainable Farming with Carbon Footprinting Get clear, actionable carbon footprint data to improve sustainability and support climate-smart agriculture Explore More Agro Admin – Built for Agribusiness Leaders Empower your team with data-driven insights, crop monitoring, and field management tools that make farming operations more productive and sustainable Explore More Smarter Fleet Management for Agriculture & Beyond Track vehicles, equipment, and farm fleets in real-time. Reduce fuel costs, improve efficiency, and ensure smooth operations with satellite-enabled fleet monitoring. WHY FARMONAUT Loved by users. Trusted by Partners. Approved by legal. Explore More Easy-to-Use, 90% Accurate Insights Get reliable insights with up to 90% accuracy, cut survey time, and prevent losses—all through a simple, user-friendly platform. Learn more about all solutions Trusted Security, Certified Safe Your information stays safe with ISO 27001-certified protection, giving you peace of mind while you work. Affordable . Scalable. For You. No big budgets needed — just smart, cost-effective technology that adapts to your goals. Learn more about pricing GET STARTED Use satellite insights and AI to save time, cut costs, and manage land smarter Farmonaut Affiliate Program- Your Network, Their Growth, Your Rewards Earn 20% monthly commission + give your users 10% off . Just 10 elite signups a month could bring you $148,000+ a year in recurring income Learn more about program Unlock Growth with us Leverage Farmonaut’s satellite intelligence, AI-powered insights, and advanced APIs to expand your business reach. From agriculture to mining, carbon, and beyond—we help you scale with data-driven solutions that deliver real results. Learn more about API Join our community across social platforms Join our global community and stay informed about precision technology, satellite monitoring, and sustainable solutions . Follow us for industry news, product updates, and real-world impact stories.
