---
id: 8e139c7b39346c15
url: https://www.wesleyan.edu
title: Wesleyan University
country: Rwanda
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-04-10'
feed_name: Google News вҖ” Rwanda agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Wesleyan University Back to Top [object Object] Play Ambient Video> Pause Ambient Video> Where Curiosity Has No Limit Explore unexpected connections, discover whatвҖҷs truly possible, and pursue your ideas and passions to create the future you envision. ItвҖҷs what we do at Wesleyan. Apply Visit Us Why Wesleyan On campusвҖ”both in and out of classвҖ”youвҖҷll gain the knowledge, experience, and community support to bring your ideas to life and create meaningful change. Find Your Why Previous Slide Next Slide An Empowering Approach to Education Wesleyan gives you an exceptionally well-rounded liberal arts and sciences education. You design your distinct path while also having the opportunity to sample a wide range of courses and activities. Learning Through Action Across the arts, humanities, sciences, and social sciences, blending ideas and action is a hallmark of a Wesleyan education. Hands-on experiences here will turn your academic knowledge into real-world skills. Expression Through the Arts Creativity thrives at Wesleyan where we have abundant arts courses, majors, and incredible venues for visual art, film, music, theater, and dance. You can definitely explore and experience the arts as part of your journey here. Research with Impact WesleyanГўВҖВҷs unique blend of undergraduate focus and high research expectations has made it a leader in groundbreaking research among liberal arts colleges. Every department, college, and academic center integrates opportunities to do meaningful research alongside expert scholar-teachers who want you to work with themГўВҖВ”not for them. Engagement is Woven In With deep community connections and partnerships in our hometown and around the world, weГўВҖВҷre building a better future. From learning and volunteering to campus culture and practices, community engagement is woven in. Together, We Make Wesleyan Inclusion and belonging are infused in every aspect of Wesleyan. Students from around the globe pursue academic goals on a campus that is inclusive of all cultures, socio-economic positions, and identities. Explore Academics and Programs With over 1,000 courses and 47 majors, Wesleyan offers endless opportunities to explore. Our open curriculum challenges you to think creatively, embrace intellectual agility, and take meaningful risks. Browse Programs Search Programs Undergraduate Academics Graduate Academics 1,900+ Courses, Lessons, and Tutorials Offered 450+ Faculty Members 17 Colleges and Academic Centers Stories from Our Community At Wesleyan, every voice adds to the vibrancy of our community. Hear from students, faculty, and alumni as they share the impact of their Wesleyan experience. When applying to colleges I was very concerned about putting myself in a box. I was drawn to the open curriculum and the opportunities afforded to me to take classes in the social sciences and humanities while maintaining a strong STEM background. Guy Bennevat Haninovich ГўВҖВҷ23 Learn More My brother was born with complex congenital heart defects. ThatГўВҖВҷs why I have always wanted to learn more about what happens on the molecular basis that triggers gene expression. At Wesleyan, I can pursue meaningful lab research as a first-year student. Holiness Igiraneza ГўВҖВҷ27 Learn More Through art, you can imagine new worlds, right? You can imagine the futureГўВҖВ”the future can be in your hand when you use art as a medium. You need art along with science to be able to cope with that as a human. Raquel Bryant Assistant Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences Read Story I think in terms of finding your community and finding places where you feel comfortable ГўВҖВ“ Wesleyan is unbelievably open. Luke Wood ГўВҖВҷ91, PГўВҖВҷ25 Learn More IГўВҖВҷm choreographing my life. Dance is about storytellingГўВҖВ”and so is the practice of diversity, equity, and inclusion. They both stem from the narratives and perspectives that you share with the world. Degan Mercado Leopold ГўВҖВҷ03 Read More We want to ensure that civic engagement is a lifelong commitment embedded into the fabric of our campus community that persists beyond elections. Khalilah L. Brown-Dean Rob Rosenthal Distinguished Professor of Civic Engagement and executive director at Allbritton Read Story Go to slide 0 Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 Life Beyond Academics ItвҖҷs all hereвҖ”so many opportunities for a full, rich life beyond your classes. Life at Wesleyan Athletics ГӮ ГӮ With a high-level of competitive excellence, over half of our student body is active in either varsity, club, or intramural sports every year. Housing and Dining ГӮ ГӮ Nearly all of our students live on campus for their full undergraduate experience, making Wesleyan an uncommonly close community. Clubs and Activities ГӮ ГӮ The fearlessness, fierceness, and fun that define our community come to life in our 200+ student clubs, groups, and teams. News and Events All News All Events Where Artists Explore: New ГўВҖВңIn ProcessГўВҖВқ Series Arts 3/16/2026 Senior Theses Roth on Wesleyan 3/19/2026 Spring Break Abroad Roth on Wesleyan 3/16/2026 New Finance Research Lab Studies Stablecoins Research Social Sciences 3/9/2026 More News Get Social
