---
id: 86c4947dea109bd6
url: https://blueprint.ng
title: Blueprint Newspapers Limited
country: Nigeria
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2025-11-28'
feed_name: Google News — Nigeria agriculture
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Blueprint Newspapers Limited Search Breaking News Breaking: Trump issues fresh threat to Iran Breaking: Iran fires missiles on Israel to retaliate k!llings Breaking: NFF appeals against FIFA verdict over DR Congo eligibility ruling Live updates: US/Israel, Iran conflict Amid Middle East war, FCCPC moves against price manipulations Middle East war: Tinubu orders 100,000 CNG conversion kits to shield Nigerians from fuel price surge Is the United States at War With Iran? Iran–Israel War Explained: What Started the Middle East Conflict US/Israel–Iran crisis: Lagos League of Imams cautions against protest, utterances Manchester City thump Arsenal to win Carabao Cup Nico O’Reilly scored twice to lead Manchester City to a 2-0 win against Arsenal in the Carabao Cup final. Two headers from the 21-year-old in the space of four second-half ... Latest Update ‘It’s a misrepresent of IGP’s directive’, Nigeria Police speak on ‘disbanding tactical units’ 11:11 pm Cross River: Otu to pay medical bills of Calabar gas explosion victims 11:09 pm Lagos CP warns taskforce over alleged rights violations, threatens disbandment 11:07 pm Kefas, Dangote distribute rice, maize to Taraba vulnerable 9:57 pm Panick as militia launches massive attack on Taraba community 9:55 pm Ondo: Police arrest 21-year-old man for raping, killing elderly woman 9:53 pm NLC rejects N6trn power sector bailout, demands reform 9:52 pm TCN speaks on collapse of Tower T99 along Ughelli/Benin 330kV transmission line 9:51 pm Access Bank, KTI sign strategic partnership to advance youth opportunities across Africa 9:37 pm Middle East: Nigeria braces for inflation as Brent crude climbs 9:33 pm Nigerian equities sustain bullish run, gain N1.765trn in 3 days 9:31 pm You can shape Africa’s future, Elumelu tells 3,200 TEF cohorts 9:28 pm Features Soludo urges Muslims to sustain Ramadan virtues The Anambra state governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has congratulated Muslim faithful across the country on the occasion of this year’s ... Eyo Masquerade Fiesta: When the white spirits walk in broad daylight The culture of a people makes them stand out among other folks anywhere. That is why people are simply identified ... The Unforgettable Heroine, Maria Shokenu The good that people do often lives after them. Such is the life of this woman who was not only ... Entertainment 2027: Why Nigerians must vote for Tinubu – Portable Controversial street-pop singer Habeeb Okikiola, widely known as Portable, has thrown his support behind President Bola Tinubu’s bid for a ... Actor Ayoyinka dumps ‘Papa Ajasco’ identity, adopts new name Veteran Nigerian actor Abiodun Ayoyinka, long celebrated for portraying the beloved Papa Ajasco character, has officially unveiled a new stage ... Actor Aremu Afolayan pulls back from politics Nollywood actor Aremu Afolayan has apologised to Nigerians and announced his withdrawal from political activities following backlash over his recent ... I have same love for my mother, father — Singer Asake Afrobeats star Asake has clarified that he holds equal affection for both his mother and father, contrary to public perception ... Peller Benin palace visit controversy deepens as Queen Ewuare disputes allegations The controversy surrounding the visit of social media influencer Habeeb Adelaja, popularly known as Peller, to the Benin Royal Palace ... American actor Chuck Norris d!es Chuck Norris, the American martial artist, actor, and cultural icon best known for his role in Walker, Texas Ranger, has ... Sports Silvestri breaks 5 ribs in Milan-San Remo crash Italian Debora Silvestri broke five ribs and sustained a micro fracture to her shoulder in a serious crash during the ... James sets NBA appearance record in late Lakers win LeBron James set the record for the most regular-season games played in NBA history as he helped the Los Angeles ... Norrie, Boulter knocked out of Miami Open Cameron Norrie and Katie Boulter were both knocked out in the third round of the Miami Open, ending British hopes ... Security & crime Kwara: Gunmen abduct eight worshippers in fresh attack, writes another 3 LGs Gunmen on Sunday attacked Evangelical Church or West Africa (ECWA) Church Omugo, Ifelodun Local Government Area (LGA) of Kwara state, ... United States sends drones, 200 troops to boost Nigeria’s terrorism fight The United States (US) has deployed multiple MQ-9 drones and 200 troops to Nigeria to support the country's fight against ... Ghana lauds Nigerian government, DSS for rescuing 44 nationals The government of the Republic of Ghana has praised the Nigerian authorities, particularly the Department of State Services (DSS), for ... Anambra: Teenager stages own kidnap, demands N3m ransom from parents Anambra state police command has arrested two boys aged 25, Mr Chinedu Nwobi and Mr Okwudili Nweke for allegedly conspiring ... Oyo: Remaining kidnapped Cocoa farmers regain freedom The remaining two cocoa farmers kidnapped by gunmen on Wednesday during a visit to the Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria, ... Olukoyede seeks reverence of self-denial, anti-corruption at Sallah The Executive Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ola Olukoyede, has rejoiced with Muslims across the ... Judiciary African Court: New president sends Eid-al- fitr message to muslins The newly elected president of the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR), Honourable Justice Blaise Tchikaya, in a ... Lagos: ADC chapter distances self from court case instituted against national secretariat The Lagos state chapter of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) has on Saturday disassociated from a case filed at a ... Uphold values of integrity, nation building, NJI Administrator charges muslims at Eid el-Fitr The Administrator of the National Judicial Institute, Hon Justice Babatunde Adejumo has charged Nigerians, especially Muslim faithfuls to use the ... “Kneel down drama”: Uganda Law Society protests, backs NBA The President of the Uganda Law Society (ULS), Mr. Isaac Ssemakadde, SC, has aligned with the position of the Nigerian ... Citizens can now document, film police on duty post – Court rules The Federal High Court sitting in Warri, Delta State, Wednesdayk delivered a landmark ruling affirming that Nigerians have the constitutional ... Sowore: NBA condemns Judge’s ‘kneel down order’ to lawyer in court The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Tuesday expressed dismay over reports of an incident that occurred on Monday March 16, 2026, ... World Stage Israel strikes Syria after Druze clashes March 22, 2026 / Agency Reports EU seeks Strait of Hormuz reopening, end to strikes on water, energy infrastructure March 22, 2026 / Chizoba Ogbeche Venezuela’s interim leader replaces senior military commanders March 22, 2026 / Admin I 7 killed as Qatar’s military helicopter crashes March 22, 2026 / Chizoba Ogbeche Politics Edo: Eseigbe engages APC faithful in Esan Central/Esan West March 22, 2026 / Admin I 2027 poll: Tafoki assures Radda of constituency support March 22, 2026 / Ahmid Lawal They can borrow, snatch governors, not Nigerians, Adebayo slams APC March 22, 2026 / Emeka Nze 2027: APC women Ireland chapter rallies support for Tinubu March 22, 2026 / Adeola Akinbobola Religion Eid-el-Fitr: AMAC chairman felicitates with Muslims, urges continued prayers for Tinubu, Wike The Executive Chairman of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Hon. Christopher Zakka Maikalangu, has extended his warmest greetings to ... End of Ramadan: Pray for our leaders, Olubadan urges Nigerians The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Rasidi Adewolu Ladoja, Wednesday called on Nigerians to pray fervently for the nation's leaders. He ... 2027: Equity, fairness, justice non -negotiable in nation building – Offa chief imam The Chief Imam of Offa, Sheikh Muhydeen Salman Salman, has tasked Nigerians, especially political office holders to be committed to ... Chizoba Ogbeche / March 22, 2026 ‘It’s a misrepresent of IGP’s directive’, Nigeria Police speak on ‘disbanding tactical units’ Nigerian News Kingston Josep / March 22, 2026 Cross River: Otu to pay medical bills of Calabar gas explosion victims Nigerian News Oguntade Ismaila / March 22, 2026 Lagos CP warns taskforce over alleged rights violations, threatens disbandment Nigerian News Hamidu Sabo / March 22, 2026 Katsina establishes smart schools for rural, disadvantaged children Education Andrew Ojih / March 22, 2026 Kefas, Dangote distribute rice, maize to Taraba vulnerable Nigerian News Andrew Ojih / March 22, 2026 Panick as militia launches massive attack on Taraba community Nigerian News Admin I / March 22, 2026 Ondo: Police arrest 21-year-old man for raping, killing elderly woman Nigerian News Blueprint / March 22, 2026 Minister Matawalle storms Gusau as APC prepares to receive Lawal Nigerian News Bode Olagoke / March 22, 2026 APC North-central to hold zonal congress in Nasarawa Nigerian News Blueprint / March 22, 2026 Fish farming, entrepreneurship: Dangote Cement Obajana trains 40 Nigerian News Emmanuel Ado / March 22, 2026 Governor Aliyu, Ramadan, and beyond breaking of fast Nigerian News Opinion Bode Olagoke / March 22, 2026 APC National Convention: Panel invites all NWC aspirants for screening Nigerian News Benjamin Samson / March 22, 2026 COAS commends troops’ sustained offensive against IPOB in South-east Nigerian News Benjamin Samson / March 22, 2026 COAS charges commanders on respect for human rights Nigerian News Moh Bello Habib / March 22, 2026 We will continue to collaborate with traditional rulers on security – Uba Sani Nigerian News Benjamin Samson / March 22, 2026 DICON-D7G CEO inspects site of Nigeria’s first military jetty Nigerian News Admin I / March 22, 2026 School enrollment: FG introduces learner identification number for students Education Adejayan Gbenga / March 22, 2026 Ogun: NYSC speaks on corps member’s death Nigerian News Copyright © 2026 Blueprint Newspapers | Theme Customised by Osward Isiguzo | About | Editorial Board | Advertise | Contact | Mission | Privacy Blueprint Newspapers Limited
