---
id: 777ae7c7ed7aaa35
url: https://www.cgiar.org
title: 'CGIAR: Science for Humanity&#039;s Greatest Challenges'
country: Nigeria
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-01-18'
feed_name: Google News — Nigeria agriculture [2024-01-17]
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

CGIAR Advancing science through shared capacity CGIAR and partners strive towards sharing equal and inclusive capacity when co-creating solutions for global food systems. Explore our Portfolio CGIAR Improved decision-making for food systems CGIAR delivers science-based evidence and insights that support countries in making informed decisions amid food security challenges. Explore our Publications CGIAR Training the next gen of food system leaders CGIAR data shows how capacity sharing is building skills for hundreds of thousands of trainees across diverse agricultural fields. Explore our Dashboards CGIAR Resilient landscapes for food security The Center for International Forestry Research and World Agroforestry works at the intersection of food landscapes where trees are central. Explore our Centers CGIAR CGIAR's global presence Explore CGIAR’s work across more than 70 countries, where partnerships drive science and innovation for food, land, and water systems. Explore our Global Presence Previous Next Latest news Show all news Show all news News March 19, 2026 Madagascar Shows Why the Future of Agricultural Innovation Must Be Integrated In Madagascar today, the stakes for agricultural transformation could not be higher. Agriculture is the primary livelihood for most Malagasy... food security Climate +1 internal News March 9, 2026 ICRISAT and University of Queensland Partner to Accelerate Climate-Resilient Crop Breeding for Dryland Farmers n a move set to accelerate the development of climate-resilient crops for some of the world’s most vulnerable farming regions, the International... Climate-Smart Agriculture Sustainable Agriculture internal News March 7, 2026 Investing in young scientists for climate-resilient agriculture As climate variability, food insecurity, and data gaps increasingly challenge agricultural systems, building a new generation of skilled scientists... Science internal Our work Our research portfolio addresses major global challenges such as climate change, gender and social inequalities, poor-quality diets, rural poverty, environmental degradation, and issues stemming from fragility, conflict, and violence. Learn more about our work Better Diets and Nutrition We co-design and test food system solutions to improve diets and nutrition in low- and middle-income countries. internal Breeding for Tomorrow We develop climate-resilient, nutritious crops and livestock to make food systems more productive, inclusive, and sustainable. internal Capacity Sharing We foster equal, healthy partnerships to share capacity and advance food, land, and water systems with focus on gender, youth, and inclusion. internal Climate Action We drive science, innovation, and collaboration to transform food, land, and water systems for a resilient, net-zero, and equitable future. internal Digital Transformation We co-create inclusive solutions using AI, data, and tech to boost decisions, policies, and investments for food-land-water transformation. internal Food Frontiers and Security We focus on three key food systems: fragile/conflict-affected, urban/peri-urban, and island food systems. internal Gender Equality and Inclusion We lead research to advance gender equality, youth opportunities, and inclusion across CGIAR’s Food, Land & Water Systems. internal Genebanks CGIAR genebanks conserve and make available 700k+ crop accessions to support resilient, sustainable and productive farming worldwide. internal Multifunctional Landscapes We envision healthy, diverse landscapes that support sustainable food systems, resilient livelihoods, and diets within planetary limits. internal Policy Innovations We deliver evidence-based recommendations to strengthen policies, markets and institutions, thereby improving millions of lives. internal Scaling for Impact We tackle poverty, hunger, and climate risks through science, partnerships, and integrated solutions for greater impact. internal Sustainable Animal and Aquatic Foods We combine livestock and aquatic systems to boost nutrition, cut emissions, and support inclusive, locally tailored solutions. internal Sustainable Farming We boost nutritious food production and protect the environment while tackling climate change, land degradation, pests, and job inequality. internal Our global presence CGIAR works across more than 70 countries. This global footprint allows us to develop the partnerships that make our research possible. See where we work Dashboards and finance reports CGIAR is the world’s largest public global agricultural innovation network, producing science for development in an accountable and transparent way. Explore our dashboards Explore our finance reports Impact in numbers CGIAR is the world’s largest, publicly funded agrifood research network. Our ambition is a food and nutrition-secure future that leaves no one behind. More about our impact More about our impact 20 Million farmers reached Innovations from CGIAR's 2022 – 2024 portfolio are used by smallholder farmers around the world. 315 Policy changes Between 2022 – 2024, CGIAR research shaped government and organizational policies. 300 Million eating biofortified crops CGIAR's work has a measurable impact on human nutrition, health and development. US$1.34 Trillion generated CGIAR crop technologies have produced cumulative economic benefits since the 1960s. 10:1 Return on investment Studies have shown that CGIAR is among the best investments donors can make in our common future. 3,000+ Plant species conserved CGIAR genebanks are custodians of the world’s most diverse publicly available crop collections. Our partners CGIAR works with more than 3,000 partners around the world to advance the transformation of food, land, and water systems in a climate crisis. More about our partners Sign up for news and updates Stay ahead with the latest insights, stories, and innovations. Subscribe now go to top
