---
id: c2d7cec823b316e9
url: https://www.csiro.au
title: Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australian Government
country: Nigeria
domain: Nutrition & Food Security
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-01-05'
feed_name: Google News — Nigeria agriculture [2024-01-04]
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australian Government - CSIRO Blog icon We are CSIRO Your national science agency We deliver the science Australians need for the nation they want – productive, sustainable, healthy and secure. Our Vision Work with us Science and technology can help your business Spanning a range of scientific disciplines across the various stages of the innovation lifecycle, we apply our research to inform policy, develop new industries and evolve existing sectors. Unlock success Innovation Innovation for impact Our suite of innovation, funding and entrepreneurship programs give researchers and industry the opportunity to collaborate on projects that help solve Australia’s greatest challenges. Discover how we can help We recognise that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples make extraordinary contributions to Australian life including in cultural, economic and scientific domains. Acknowledgement of Country CSIRO acknowledges the Traditional Owners of the lands, seas and waters, of the area that we live and work on across Australia and pays its respect to Elders past and present. Indigenous science projects Solving the greatest challenges Energy resilience: Australia’s alternative fuel opportunities Sharp fluctuations in the global oil and gas industry underscore the value of a resilient and diverse energy system. Against this backdrop, low carbon liquid fuels offer practical pathways for hard-to-abate, hydrocarbon dependent sectors like aviation, shipping and heavy industry. Australia-India partnership takes step closer to green steel through world-first use of ag waste in steelmaking Researchers from CSIRO and the Indian Institute of Science have proven the approach can work at commercial scale, with wider adoption having the potential to halve emissions from steelmaking in India. A milestone voyage for Antarctic science Researchers on the recent 55-day voyage of RV Investigator achieved some big scientific milestones while delivering research to help secure Antarctica’s future. Our greatest inventions Fast Wifi Aerogard Hendra vaccine Plastic banknotes Raft Polymerisation Fast Wifi Our wireless invention lies at the heart of what is now the most popular way to connect computers without wires. It is used in offices, public buildings, homes and coffee shops - often called 'WiFi Hotspots'. The invention came out of our pioneering work in radioastronomy. Where did wifi come from? Aerogard Aerogard has been keeping flying pests at bay since the 1960s, helping prevent diseases that infect animals and humans. In 1938, Doug Waterhouse was working on a repellent for sheep blowfly. With the arrival of World War II, he turned to protecting allied troops from mosquitoes. Itching to learn more World's first Hendra vaccine In 1994, a deadly new virus threatened to stop Australia's premier horse race – the Melbourne Cup. Over 16 years, 18 outbreaks of Hendra virus were recorded. In May 2011, we announced the development of a prototype vaccine for horses. By March 2013, our scientists confirmed that horses were immune to Hendra virus six months post vaccination. How it happened Plastic banknotes Australia's introduction of plastic bank notes with optically variable devices (OVDs), developed by CSIRO, was a world's first and represented a paradigm shift towards a currency secure against forgery. This was one of our longest and most successful research initiatives. Learn more about our inventions RAFT polymerisation RAFT polymerisation is a new technique for creating plastics that allows a higher degree of control over the way molecules link together. Plastics are essential elements of modern life, created through the process of polymerisation to give them a range of different attributes. Learn more Latest news There are no news releases to show. Connect with CSIRO Partner Commercialisation marketplace Partner Commercialisation marketplace Partner Commercialisation marketplace Partner Commercialisation marketplace Partner Commercialisation marketplace Vacancy Want to join the team? Vacancy Want to join the team? Vacancy Want to join the team? Vacancy Want to join the team? Vacancy Want to join the team? CSIRO events Join one of our exciting events CSIRO events Join one of our exciting events CSIRO events Join one of our exciting events CSIRO events Join one of our exciting events CSIRO events Join one of our exciting events Students Sign up for a studentship Students Sign up for a studentship Students Sign up for a studentship Students Sign up for a studentship Students Sign up for a studentship Recent articles There are no news releases to show. Show Info Contact us Find out how we can help you and your business. Get in touch using the form below and our experts will get in contact soon! CSIRO will handle your personal information in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and our Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Email * Required Enter a valid email address, for example jane.doe@csiro.au Country * Required A Country value must be provided First name * Required First name must be filled in Surname * Required Surname must be filled in I am representing * Required Myself Organisation (let us know in your enquiry if you are a small to medium enterprise) Please choose an option Organisation (let us know in your enquiry if you are a small to medium enterprise) * Required Organisation must be filled in Enquiry Subject * Required Please provide a subject for the enquriy 0 / 100 Your enquiry * Required We'll need to know what you want to contact us about so we can give you an answer 0 / 1900 I’d like to hear more by subscribing to CSIRO's monthly newsletter, Snapshot. Send enquiry Please leave this field empty or your enquiry will not be submitted: You shouldn't be able to see this field. Please try again and leave the field blank. Thank you We have received your enquiry and will reply soon. We're Sorry The contact form is currently unavailable. Please try again later. If this problem persists, please call us with your enquiry on 1300 363 400 or +61 3 9545 2176. We are available from 9.00 am to 4.00 pm AEST Monday - Friday.
