---
id: df88753987a319dc
url: https://www.osunstate.gov.ng
title: Osun State Official Website
country: Nigeria
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-01-11'
feed_name: Google News — Nigeria agriculture [2024-01-10]
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

OSUN STATE TEACHERS RECRUITMENT EXERCISE 2026,RELEASE OF SUPPLEMENTARY LIST TO THE FIRST BATCH. OSUN STATE TEACHERS RECRUITMENT EXERCISE 2026,RELEASE OF SUPPLEMENTARY LIST TO THE FIRST BATCH. continue reading... Governor Adeleke Extols Faith, and Unity as Osun Muslims Celebrate Eid-el-Fitr Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke, has congratulated Muslim faithfuls in Osun State on the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan. continue reading... 2027: Governor Adeleke Reaffirms Endorsement of President Tinubu. ● Commends Osun People for Mass Support for Accord OSOGBO - 07/03/2026 - osunstate.gov.ng Governor Ademola Adeleke has again reaffirmed his endorsement of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for re-election in 2027, appreciating Osun people for demonstrating mass endorsement for Accord. Addressing cabinet members, special advisers and top government officials at the government house, Governor Adeleke said the crisis... continue reading... Governor Adeleke Stops Planned PPP Deal at Ilesa College of Health Tech Governor Ademola Adeleke has directed the board and management of Osun State College of Health Technology, Ilesa to stop further processing of a public private partnership deal on the college's land. continue reading... GOVERNOR ADELEKE FELICITATES OSUN ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL, RASHEED OLALERE ALABI, ON BIRTHDAY. GOVERNOR ADELEKE FELICITATES OSUN ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL, RASHEED OLALERE ALABI, ON BIRTHDAY. continue reading... Governor Adeleke Chides Osun APC, Says Federal Might is for Good Governance, Not Election Rigging Governor Ademola Adeleke has chided the Osun State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) for its condemnable threats to unleash federal might on Osun voters on August 15, warning that federal might is for Good governance, not election rigging continue reading... GOVERNOR ADELEKE HONOURS YOUTH AFFAIRS COMMISSIONER, OLAGUNJU MOSHOOD, ON BIRTHDAY Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke has joined well-wishers in celebrating the birthday of the Osun State Commissioner for Youth Affairs, Olagunju Moshood Olalekan continue reading... Governor Adeleke Felicitates Attorney General Jimi-Bada on Birthday Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke has congratulated the Osun State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oluwole Jimi-Bada, SAN, on the occasion of his birthday, describing him as a brilliant legal professional whose service continues to strengthen the administration of justice in the state. continue reading... I Prioritise Welfare, Inclusion in Governance – Governor Adeleke Tells PWD Community. Governor Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke has reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to the welfare and inclusion of persons with disabilities while presenting appointment and employment letters to members of the community in Osun State. continue reading... WHY I DESERVE TO BE RE-ELECTED - GOV ADELEKE Your visit comes on a day that is of great importance to our dear state. Today marks the starting point of campaigning for the August 15, 2026 governorship elections. We need your prayers and support for a free and fair elections through which the will of the people will prevail. continue reading... Osun Government plans Alternative Power-supply for Reality Radio-Vision Services, Iwo the efforts to address the persistent epileptic power supply affecting the delivery of its services, the Osun State government has reiterated the efforts of its administration to implement the usage of alternative power supply for the state owned broadcasting station, Reality Radio-Vision Services (RTS), in Iwo continue reading... Governor Adeleke Condoles Family Members & Chief Obasanjo Over Exit of Chief Amuda Obelawo. Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke, has expressed grief at the passing of Chief Amuda Obelawo, a distinguished industrialist, philanthropist, and respected patriarch of the Obelawo family. continue reading... Osun State to Distribute Essential Drugs to Health Centres. The Osun State Primary Healthcare Department Board in conjunction with the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency has announced plans to distribute essential drugs and medical equipment procured by Governor Ademola Adeleke Demola to 332 Primary Health Centres across the State. continue reading... GOVERNOR ADELEKE MOURNS PASSING OF VETERAN FOOTBALL TACTICIAN, ONIGBINDE. The Executive Governor of Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke has described the passing of a former Super Eagles Manager, High Chief Festus Adegboye Onigbinde as painful and devastating, commiserating with the people of Modakeke and Nigeria's football community for the touching loss. continue reading... People's Votes Must Count in August 2026 – Governor Adeleke. Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke, has warned that vote of the people must count in August 15th governorship election in Osun State saying that is the only way to protect the Nigerian democratic system. continue reading... 23 Reasons Bola Oyebamiji Is Not Fit to Be Osun Governor The Osun State Governor’s Office has fired a major salvo at the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Oyebamiji, listing 23 reasons he is not fit to be Governor of Osun State. continue reading... 20 Reasons Why Governor Adeleke Deserves Re-Election Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun state deserves re-election as a performing governor of Osun state due to 20 cogent reasons which are validated by stakeholders locally, nationally and internationally. continue reading... Rigging Threats: Adeleke Responds to Oyebamiji & Oyetola, Says Voters will Punish Osun APC Rigging Threats: Adeleke Responds to Oyebamiji & Oyetola, Says Voters will Punish Osun APC continue reading... Governor Adeleke Hails MDCN's Final Full Accreditation to UNIOSUN Governor Adeleke Hails MDCN's Final Full Accreditation to UNIOSUN continue reading... OSSG RELEASES NAMES OF FIRST BATCH OF SUCCESSFUL APPLICANTS FOR TEACHERS RECRUITMENT. OSSG RELEASES NAMES OF FIRST BATCH OF SUCCESSFUL APPLICANTS FOR TEACHERS RECRUITMENT. continue reading... GOVERNOR ADELEKE HOSTS NEW OSUN NUJ LEADERSHIP, HARPS ON FIGHT AGAINST FAKE NEWS. Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke has tasked the media to remain a strong vanguard against fake news and disinformation as Osun approaches the 2026 Governorship Election. continue reading... GOVERNOR ADELEKE GREETS EX-PRESIDENT OBASANJO AT 89 The Executive Governor of Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke has congratulated former President Olusegun Aremu Obasanjo on the occasion ogf his 89th birthday, celebrating his life as one marked by distinguished services and enduring contributions. continue reading... Stop Inciting Town Against Other, Your Intention Is Evil; Governor Adeleke’s Spokesperson Warns Adeoye Adelakun. The Spokesperson to the Executive Governor of Osun State, Mallam Olawale Rasheed has condemned a reckless and divisive statement made by an Osogbo-born APC chieftain, Adeoye Adelakun, in which he attempted to incite the good people of Osogbo against their brothers and sisters in Ede. Mallam Olawale Rasheed condemned the statement and describe the intention... continue reading... Oyetola's Kinsman, Hon. Kareem Afolabi, Others Dump Ambo/APC, Back Adeleke for Re-Election The political structure of Marine Minister, Adegboyega Oyetola, in his hometown of Iragbiji and Boripe Local Government collapsed today as key leaders of the APC in the town and the council area dumped the APC and embraced the Accord and Governor Ademola Adeleke. continue reading... Good Governance: Sheikh Razak Aduagba Al-Adabya Praises Governor Adeleke Governor Ademola Adeleke today received warm review of his administration from two leading Islamic clerics who summarised his performance as ‘excellent’ and his religious committment godly and every inch Islamic. continue reading... Ministry of Federal Affairs Abuja, Nigeria. The Osun State Government is pleased to announce a significant milestone in its efforts to attract foreign investment and drive economic growth. The state has secured a $5 million investment from Al Liwan Group Limited, a renowned international investment firm, for the development of the Owala Water Dam project. continue reading... Osun to Launch Security Trust Fund in March - Governor Adeleke Governor Ademola Adeleke has announced late March, 2026 as the launching and unveiling month for the Osun State Security Trust Fund just as he flaunts his equitable implementation of projects and programmes across the state. continue reading... Osun SUBEB Reaffirms Commitment to Free Education, Debunks Claims of Illegal School Fees. Osun SUBEB Reaffirms Commitment to Free Education, Debunks Claims of Illegal School Fees. continue reading... Governor Ademola Adeleke Welcomes Ex-Osun SSG Moshood Adeoti and Loyalists to Accord Party. Governor Ademola Adeleke warmly received former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alh. Moshood Adeoti, alongside his loyalists, as they officially joined the Accord Party and pledged support for the Governor’s second-term bid. continue reading... Those Plotting to Derail our Government Have Failed — Governor Adeleke. Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun state has restated the determination of his administration to complete all major ongoing projects across all major towns in Osun state, declaring that “those who plotted to derail our government have failed” continue reading... Agenda News Policy Achievement Feedbacks Download: Delivering The People’s Mandate - A MINI Compendium Of Achievements 2022-2025 Welcome to Ipinle Osun Osun State was created following series of pressure mounted on the federal military government over a long period of time by the founding fathers, most of whom are traditional rulers and community leaders. Col. Ajiborisa pioneered the new State between August 1991 and January 1992, when an election was conducted under the zero party system which was introduced by then Military President Ibrahim Babangida. It was that election that saw the emergence of Alhaji Isiaka Adetunji Adeleke as the governor of the sate. As the first Executive Governor of the State… Read More Investment Opportunities Tourism Osun State beckons with its lush landscapes, vibrant festivals, and a rich cultural heritage that will leave you enchanted. Join us on a journey through Osun State, where history meets tradition, and natural beauty intertwines with the warmth of its people. ICT Osun State has undergone a remarkable transformation, emerging as a dynamic center for innovation, technology, and digital advancement. Osun State is poised to lead the way in the ICT revolution. Join us as we explore the digital landscape of Osun State, where innovation knows no bounds, and the future of technology is being shaped every day. Agro Economy The largest cocoa producer in Nigeria responsible for over 40% all cocoa export in Nigeria. Mining Its potential for renewable and non renewable power generation has been left relatively untapped. State Documents Budget Documents Financial Documents Fiscal & Economic Docs Public Notice Docs Other Documents Act Quickly Do not Hesitate, dial 293 to report any case of emergency such as Fire Outbreak, Crime, Medical, this number is toll free, a representative will be automatically assigned to you to give response to your needs. The service is available always, 24/7 maximum support is guaranteed. Dial 293 Access the Osun State staff portal Staff Login
