---
id: e15c6a2689e25933
url: https://gazettengr.com
title: Peoples Gazette Nigeria
country: Nigeria
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-01-23'
feed_name: Google News — Nigeria agriculture [2024-01-22]
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Peoples Gazette Nigeria - Truth, Courage or Nothing... Sunday, March 22, 2026 Menu #EndSARS Politics Anti-Corruption Rights Economy Education Health Sport Nationwide Opinion Search #EndSARS Politics Anti-Corruption Rights Economy Education Health Sport Nationwide Opinion Menu Live Abduction: Security agents should be proactive rather than responding after terrorist attacks, says ECWA Ambali Abdulkabeer Britain making same terrible energy policies responsible for Nigeria’s unreliable electricity: Kemi Badenoch Ahmed Oluwasanjo 2027: Nigerians must vote for Tinubu to avoid war; Yorubas who don’t will ‘perish’, Portable warns Ahmed Oluwasanjo Italy-bound opioids, meth hidden in winter jackets, cartons intercepted at Lagos airport Mr Babafemi said that two suspects were also arrested same day on the 3rd Mainland bridge, conveying 8,380 bottles of same substance. News Agency of Nigeria Injured victims in Calabar gas explosion rise to 60 Obi, Makinde, others visit Kwankwaso for eid celebration in Kano Mr Obi said his visit was not political but to celebrate Sallah with the people and show solidarity. News Agency of Nigeria Bandits attack Kwara ECWA church, abduct eight worshippers Ms Olukoju said three of the victims had been successfully rescued following immediate response by the security operatives. Ambali Abdulkabeer Olubadan assures vigilance groups across 11 Ibadan LGAs of financial backing News Agency of Nigeria Edo-IRS advises residents to file tax returns by March 31 or risk sanctions News Agency of Nigeria Politics 2027: Nigerians must vote for Tinubu to avoid war; Yorubas who don’t will ‘perish’, Portable warns In a viral video on Sunday, the music threatened that Nigeria would be plunged into civil war should they oppose Mr Tinubu’s re-election. Defection: Zamfara APC set to formally receive Gov Lawal Nigerians must support Tinubu’s reelection to reap gains of reforms: Obasa, Ambode Get every story as it breaks Name* Email* Please leave this field empty. Anti-Corruption Nigerian scammer James Aliyu extradited from South Africa to U.S. over wire fraud bags 90-month jail term Mr Aliyu during his trial entered a plea agreement and would be deported to Nigeria upon competion of his jail term. Eid-el-Fitri: EFCC boss urges Muslims to uphold anti-corruption values New UK-Nigeria partnership to speed up deportation of Nigerian criminals, failed asylum seekers Rights No tradition allows violation of women’s rights, Remi Tinubu condemns Ozoro ‘rape festival’ Mrs Tinubu maintained that no custom can justify violence or abuse against women. Ozoro Festival: NBA condemns assault on women Edo police arrest suspects in viral school bullying incident, to charge them to family court Economy Fuel Prices Hike: Nigerians seek FG’s intervention as costs of food, services soar The development has caused a strain on both traders, business owners, consumers and other citizens Global recycling market to reach $4.5 trillion by 2030: Expert NSC orders immediate suspension of new shipping tariffs Health Ogun health commissioner seeks govt’s investment in doctors’ leadership skills The commissioner advised young doctors and medical students to start developing leadership skills early. AGN offers free health checks for Nollywood actors in FCT Teething not cause of stooling in infants, experts say Education Nigerians berate Tinubu govt’s partnership with Coventry University to bring UK degrees to Nigeria Mr Alausa described the initiative as part of the highlights of Mr Tinubu’s state visit to the UK. Rex Insurance, NiMet launch weather index cover for farmers Resident doctors condemn terrorists’ bombing of teaching hospital, seek urgent protection « Prev 1 / 4 Next » Advertorial: Failed refinery rehabilitation SSS, prison officials clash over custody of suspended CBN Gov. Emefiele Peter Obi, in last-minute push for votes, begs Bishop Oyedepo to help win 2023 'religious war' Femi Kuti says Obidients are zombies Europe-bound Nigerians brave treacherous Sahara pathway into forced labour, exploitation in Libya PDP chairman caught on camera hailing Tambuwal as ‘hero of national convention’ Willie and Ebelechukwu Obiano arrived at Harsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport Attorney-General Abubakar Malami brags about sharing exotic cars to Kebbi politicians « Prev 1 / 4 Next » Nationwide Tinubu praises Damilola Ogunbiyi over Time Earth award “I applaud her steadfast commitment to service and her significant role in elevating Nigeria’s profile on the international stage,” Mr Tinubu said. Ex-AGN president Rollas seeks revival of Igbo language SCAN raises alarm over delay in renewal of port concession agreements Agriculture Cocoa price crash pushes South-West farmers into financial despair The farmers claimed the price reversal from boom to bust has left many with significant debt and, in some cases, unable to find buyers for their harvests. FG seeks stronger PPP to drive reforms across correctional centres Survey shows tourists willing to shun South Africa over captive lion breeding OPINION Tinubu echoes Buhari-era Sahel talking points at Nigeria-UK security parley Nigeria leans on the language of desertification and displacement to avoid the harder task of restructuring a livestock economy that is visibly in conflict with settled agriculture. OJO MADUEKWE My lord, Justice Kneel Down This episode raises important questions concerning both the limits of judicial power and standards of professional comportment. CHIDI ODINKALU Unity, Structure and Strategy: Inside the significance of the APC national convention At its core, the national convention is the highest decision-making assembly of the party. Arabinrin Aderonke Atoyebi The revenge of geography in Northern Nigeria Military formations must traverse enormous distances to reach remote communities, while roads that should serve as arteries of commerce become vulnerable corridors for travellers. ABDUL MAHMUD A back to the future moment for the Nigerian Bar Association For the NBA, the more things change, the more they remain the same. CHIDI ODINKALU For finishing Okey Ndibe, I forgive Brittle Paper for calling me Unoka What worse indignation could any man undergo? Rudolf Okonkwo Lagos Shettima arrives in Lagos to brief Tinubu on situation in Maiduguri Mr Shettima is also expected to lead serving governors on a visit to the president on Sunday afternoon. I’ll dissolve task force over human rights violations, Lagos CP warns Gov. Sanwo-Olu urges Muslims to uphold Ramadan virtues Abuja FCT FA tasks Muslims to embrace tolerance, peaceful coexistence Mr Mohammed urged Muslims to uphold the spirit of eid by promoting tolerance, mutual respect and peaceful coexistence. ACCI urges sustained govt. support, stronger business policies Eid-el-Fitr: AMAC chairman seeks sustained prayers for FCT, Wike States Six federal road projects ongoing in Abia, says works controller Mr Uwaeziozi said that the other seven projects were stalled as a result of unforeseen circumstances. Abduction: Security agents should be proactive rather than responding after terrorist attacks, says ECWA Eid-el-Fitr: COAS organises luncheon for troops in Katsina Sport Results of NPFL Match Day 31 Warri Wolves FC 0-0 Bendel Insurance FC English Premier League probes alleged racial abuse during Newcastle-Sunderland derby Rwanda edge South Africa in rain-hit cricket thriller Showbiz 2027: Nigerians must vote for Tinubu to avoid war; Yorubas who don’t will ‘perish’, Portable warns In a viral video on Sunday, the music threatened that Nigeria would be plunged into civil war should they oppose Mr Tinubu’s re-election. AGN offers free health checks for Nollywood actors in FCT Hollywood star Chuck Norris is dead Faith Nigeria not safe country, Catholic bishops tell Pope Leo The bishops told EWTN News they took the opportunity during their meeting with the pope to inform him of the problems facing the church in Nigeria. Jehovah’s Witnesses reaffirm stance on use of own blood in medical, surgical procedures Eid-el-Fitr: SSANU preaches unity, sacrifice among Nigerians World Britain making same terrible energy policies responsible for Nigeria’s unreliable electricity: Kemi Badenoch Ms Badenoch said, “I grew up in a country rich with oil, but because Nigeria’s leaders made bad policy choices, it never lived up to its full potential.” English Premier League probes alleged racial abuse during Newcastle-Sunderland derby Forest thrash Spurs 3-0, Aston Villa bounce back to top four, Sunderland beat Newcastle Africa Rwanda edge South Africa in rain-hit cricket thriller The visitors rallied to 90 for three in 12 overs, with captain Mieke Van Voorst scoring 34 off 27 balls. Cricket: Nigeria crush Ghana by 136 runs in Kambarami cup clash Ghana repatriates 44 citizens rescued from trafficking camps in Akwa Ibom Diaspora Court sentences Fred Akinsanya, Daniel Raji to 21 years in prison for drugging, raping 15-year-old girl The duo bought their victim drinks at the Irish pub Paddy’s Yard in Brixton, south London, on February 8, 2025. Nigerian scammer James Aliyu extradited from South Africa to U.S. over wire fraud bags 90-month jail term New UK-Nigeria partnership to speed up deportation of Nigerian criminals, failed asylum seekers Fresh Headlines Victor Olorunfemi Tinubu praises Damilola Ogunbiyi over Time Earth award News Agency of Nigeria Six federal road projects ongoing in Abia, says works controller Ambali Abdulkabeer Abduction: Security agents should be proactive rather than responding after terrorist attacks, says ECWA News Agency of Nigeria Eid-el-Fitr: COAS organises luncheon for troops in Katsina News Agency of Nigeria Gov.Yusuf restates dedication to Kano’s growth, security Hot Headlines Singer Simi berates Nigerians who dug up her posts gushing over penis of 4-year-old boy at her mother’s daycare Abiodun Sanusi Tinubu govt paid N10 billion to Boko Haram to free abducted schoolchildren, teachers: Agence France-Presse Ahmed Oluwasanjo PDP begins digital membership registration News Agency of Nigeria Missing Nigerian, Kenyan women found dead in UK waters raise concerns Rejoice Okechukwu Gospel artiste Taiwo Adegbodu is dead Aduwo Ayodele Get every story as it breaks Name* Email* Please leave this field empty. In an era of fake news and overcrowded media marketplace, the journalists at Peoples Gazette aim to provide quality and practical information to help our readers stay ahead and better understand events around them. We focus on being the balanced source of true, stimulating and independent journalism. The Peoples Gazette Ltd, Plot 1095, Umar Shuaibu Avenue, Utako, Abuja. +234 805 888 8330. Quick Links Comment Policy Editorial Code of Conduct Share Your Tips Advert Rates Follow © 2026 Peoples Gazette™ Limited. Home #EndSARS Politics Anti-Corruption Rights Exclusive Economy Education Health Sport Showbiz Nationwide Port Harcourt Enugu Ibadan Jos Kano Maiduguri Diaspora Abuja Lagos Africa Faith Agriculture Manage Cookie Consent We use cookies to enhance our website and our service. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny Preferences Save preferences Preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent
