---
id: ea4b23347f90addb
url: https://www.nature.com
title: Nature
country: Nigeria
domain: agriculture
domain_score: 2
info_type: news_article
published_at: '2024-01-04'
feed_name: Google News — Nigeria agriculture [2024-01-04]
source: rss
body_source: fetched_html
---

Nature Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. Stress can cause eczema to flare-up – now we know why Scientists have identified the neurons that worsen the condition during stress. Featured Content Lab-grown oesophagus restores pigs’ ability to swallow Engineered tissue could eventually be used for children born with gaps in their alimentary canal, or for adults whose muscles have been damaged by cancer. Rachel Fieldhouse News 20 Mar 2026 Project Hail Mary film builds dazzling new worlds — and grounds them in science The space odyssey charms with its message of unity while referencing molecular biology, neutrino physics and more. Alexandra Witze News 19 Mar 2026 Intestinal interoceptive dysfunction drives age-associated cognitive decline Age-related microbiome changes increase medium-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria, driving GPR84-mediated myeloid inflammation, impaired vagal signalling and hippocampal dysfunction; targeting this gut–brain pathway restores memory in aged mice. Timothy O. Cox Ashwarya S. Devason Christoph A. Thaiss Article Open Access 11 Mar 2026 Daily briefing: Static electricity is still a mystery — here’s what we know A jolt of new research could help scientists finally understand static electricity. Plus, how head knocks from contact sports could cause long-term cognitive decline and new species of magic mushroom. Jacob Smith Nature Briefing 19 Mar 2026 Contents Subscribe Current Issue 19 Mar 2026 Advertisement News & Comment Elusive ‘nuclear clocks’ tick closer to reality — after decades in the making Super-precise timekeepers based on atomic nuclei could be tested as soon as this year. Dan Garisto News 20 Mar 2026 Lab-grown oesophagus restores pigs’ ability to swallow Rachel Fieldhouse News 20 Mar 2026 Stress can cause eczema to flare up – now we know why Miryam Naddaf News 19 Mar 2026 UK bets big on homegrown fusion and quantum — can it lead the world? David Adam News 19 Mar 2026 Project Hail Mary film builds dazzling new worlds — and grounds them in science Alexandra Witze News 19 Mar 2026 Mathematician who reshaped number theory wins prestigious Abel prize Davide Castelvecchi News 19 Mar 2026 Masked mitochondria slip into cells to treat disease in mice Edward Chen News 19 Mar 2026 Latest Reviews & Analysis Climate snapshots trapped in ancient ice tell a surprising story Antarctic ice cores hint that changes in the ocean might have played a larger part than have greenhouse gases in key climate shifts of the past three million years. Eric W. Wolff News & Views 18 Mar 2026 Genome editing that avoids immune detection to integrate large DNA sequences A genome-editing approach called INSTALL combines single-stranded DNA molecules that evade immune detection with a short double-stranded region that allows recombinase enzymes to insert a DNA sequence into mammalian genomes. INSTALL enables the insertion of large DNA sequences into the genomes of human and mouse cells without causing toxic immune responses. Research Briefing 18 Mar 2026 Hair-raising: how carbon contamination can drive static charging Objects made from the same insulator can sometimes acquire different charges when rubbed together, owing to a thin layer of carbon-based material on the object’s surface. Simone Ciampi News & Views 18 Mar 2026 A gene-editing method generates immunotherapeutic CAR T cells in the body Laboratory-engineered immune cells called CAR T cells provide effective treatment for some cancers. Progress is being made towards creating these cells in vivo . Robert Holt Laura Evgin News & Views 18 Mar 2026 Quirky base pairing attracts rule-breaking enzymes to destroy microRNAs MicroRNAs control gene expression by modulating the output and stability of messenger RNAs. How are these crucial regulators kept in check? Katherine McJunkin News & Views 18 Mar 2026 Mystery of how plants make a family of medicinal molecules has been solved Research Briefing 18 Mar 2026 Our microbial ancestors were probably oxygen-tolerant Research Briefing 18 Mar 2026 An enzyme inside the bacterial-cell membrane chops up viral DNA on entry Research Briefing 18 Mar 2026 Thymus health is a predictor of lifelong well-being and immunotherapy effectiveness Graham Anderson News & Views 18 Mar 2026 Latest Research articles Integrated memristor for mitigating reverse-bias in perovskite solar cells A memristor integrated into perovskite photovoltaics aims to mitigate the issues seen with reverse-bias degradation under partial shading. Mahdi Mohammadi Fuxiang Ji Wolfgang Tress Article 18 Mar 2026 Magnetic resonance control of spin-correlated radical pair dynamics in vivo Magnetic resonance control of spin-correlated radical pairs alters red fluorescent protein emission in transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans , demonstrating in vivo magnetic field modulation of biomolecular processes. Shaun C. Burd Nahal Bagheri Mark Kasevich Article 18 Mar 2026 In vivo site-specific engineering to reprogram T cells Stable and cell-specific transgene expression can be achieved through in vivo site-specific integration of large DNA payloads using a two-vector system of enveloped delivery vehicles and adeno-associated viruses. William A. Nyberg Pierre-Louis Bernard Justin Eyquem Article Open Access 18 Mar 2026 Synthetic circuits for cell ratio control A synthetic genetic circuit made up of recombinase-based cell-fate branching devices enables precise control over the ratios of cell types in an offspring population derived from one founder strain, and could be used to build user-defined multicellular aggregates. Bolin An Tzu-Chieh Tang Chao Zhong Article Open Access 18 Mar 2026 Observing the tidal pulse of rivers from wide-swath satellite altimetry Data from the recently launched SWOT satellite, a wide-swath satellite altimeter, have been used to map tidal dynamics for thousands of coastal rivers and to document the factors controlling the inland extent of tides. M. G. Hart-Davis D. Scherer F. Seitz Article Open Access 18 Mar 2026 Collections Nutrition The science of nutrition is evolving. Spotlight 11 Mar 2026 Advertisement Trending - Altmetric Knock knock, no one’s there. Study finds scientists’ jokes mostly fall flat Broadly stable atmospheric CO2 and CH4 levels over the past 3 million years China could be the world’s biggest public funder of science within two years In vivo site-specific engineering to reprogram T cells Science jobs Faculty Positions in School of Engineering, Westlake University The School of Engineering at Westlake University is seeking to fill multiple tenured or tenure-track faculty positions in all ranks. Hangzhou, Zhejiang (CN) Westlake University Global Talent Recruitment Announcement of the College of Engineering, HZAU Join HZAU's global faculty team to advance research with competitive benefits. Wuhan, Hubei (CN) Huazhong Agricultural University (HZAU) Multiple Positions Open in The Stomatology Hospital，Zhejiang University School of Medicine Hangzhou, Zhejiang (CN) The Stomatology Hospital, School of Stomatology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine(ZJUSS) Group Leader Positions in Chemical and Structural Biology IRB Barcelona invites applications for Group Leader positions in Chemical Biology (one) and Structural Biology (one). Barcelona (Provincia), Cataluña (ES) Fundació Institut de Recerca Biomèdica (IRB Barcelona) SENIOR OR MID-CAREER RESEARCHERS IN AI, AND DATA SCIENCE AND COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCES (F/M) The Paris Brain Institute invites expressions of interest from internationally recognized senior and mid-career researchers. Paris, Ile-de-France (FR) Institut du Cerveau Advertisement Close banner Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily. Email address Sign up I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy . Close banner Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox. Sign up for Nature Briefing Search Search articles by subject, keyword or author Show results from All journals This journal Search Advanced search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies
